{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Book 3\
\
============================================================\
FILE: The Effect of Minimum Wages on Low-Wage Jobs- Evidence from the United States Using a Bunching Estimator.pdf\
============================================================\
\
[Page 1 of 116]\
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES\
THE EFFECT OF MINIMUM WAGES ON LOW-WAGE JOBS:\
EVIDENCE FROM THE UNITED STATES USING A BUNCHING ESTIMATOR\
Doruk Cengiz\
Arindrajit Dube\
Attila Lindner\
Ben Zipperer\
Working Paper 25434\
http://www.nber.org/papers/w25434\
NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH\
1050 Massachusetts Avenue\
Cambridge, MA 02138\
January 2019\
We thank David Autor, David Card, Sebastian Findeisen, Eric French, Hedvig Horvath, Gabor \
Kezdi, Patrick Kline, Steve Machin, Alan Manning, Sendhil Mullainathan, Suresh Naidu, James \
Rebitzer, Michael Reich, Janos Vincze, Daniel Wilhelm, and participants at WEAI 2016 Annual \
Meetings, CREAM 2016 conference, Boston University Empirical Micro workshop, Colorado \
State University, IFS-STICERD seminar, Michigan State University, NBER Summer Institute \
2018 (Labor Studies), Northeastern University, University of Arizona, University of Illinois-\
Urbana Champagne, University of California Berkeley  IRLE, University of Mannheim, and \
University of Warwick for very helpful comments. The views expressed herein are those of the \
authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau  of Economic Research.\
NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been \
peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies \
official NBER publications.\
\'a9 2019 by Doruk Cengiz, Arindrajit Dube, Attila Lindner, and Ben Zipperer. All rights reserved. \
Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission \
provided that full credit, including \'a9 notice, is given to the source.\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 2 of 116]\
The Effect of Minimum Wages on Low-Wage Jobs: Evidence from the United States Using\
a Bunching Estimator\
Doruk Cengiz, Arindrajit Dube, Attila Lindner, and Ben Zipperer\
NBER Working Paper No. 25434\
January 2019\
JEL No. J23,J38,J88\
ABSTRACT\
We propose a novel method that infers the employment effect of a minimum wage increase by \
comparing  the number of excess jobs paying at or slightly above the new minimum wage to the \
missing jobs paying below it. To implement our approach, we estimate the effect of the minimum \
wage on the frequency distribution of hourly wages using 138 prominent state-level minimum \
wage changes between 1979  and 2016. We find that the overall number of low-wage jobs \
remained essentially unchanged over five years following the increase. At the same time, the \
direct effect of the minimum wage on average  earnings was amplified by modest wage spillovers \
at the bottom of the wage distribution. Our estimates  by detailed demographic groups show that \
the lack of job loss is not explained by labor-labor substitution  at the bottom of the wage \
distribution. We also find no evidence of disemployment when we consider higher levels of \
minimum wages. However, we do find some evidence of reduced employment in tradable  \
sectors. In contrast to our bunching-based estimates, we show that some conventional studies can \
produce misleading inference due to spurious changes in employment higher up in the wage \
distribution.\
Doruk Cengiz\
Department of Economics  \
Crotty Hall\
412 North Pleasant Street  \
University of Massachusetts \
Amherst, MA 01002 \
dcdorukcengiz@gmail.com\
Arindrajit Dube  Department \
of Economics  University of \
Massachusetts Crotty Hall\
412 N. Pleasant Street  \
Amherst, MA 01002\
and NBER\
adube@econs.umass.eduAttila Lindner\
Department of Economics  \
University College London  30 \
Gordon Street\
London\
WC1H 0AX\
United Kingdom\
and CERS-HAS, IZA and IFS \
a.lindner@ucl.ac.uk\
Ben Zipperer\
Economic Policy Institute  \
1225 Eye St. NW, Suite 600  \
Washington, DC 20005 \
benzipperer@gmail.com\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 3 of 116]\
1 Introduction\
Minimum wage policies have featured prominently in recent policy debates in the United\
States at the federal, state and local levels. California, Massachusetts, New York have passed\
legislation to eventually increase minimum wages to $15/hour, while \uc0\u64257 ve other states are on\
paths to raise their minimum wages of $12 or more. Over a dozen cities have also instituted\
city-wide minimum wages during the past three years, typically by substantial amounts above\
state and federal standards. Underlying much of the policy debate is the central question:\
what is the overall e\uc0\u64256 ect of minimum wages on low-wage jobs?\
Even though nearly three decades have passed since the advent of \'93new minimum wage\
research\'94 (see e.g. Card and Krueger 1995; Neumark and Wascher 2008), there is scant\
evidence on the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the policy on overallemployment. This shortcoming is particularly\
acute given the importance policymakers place on understanding overall responses. For\
example, in its attempt to arrive at such an estimate, the 2014 Congressional Budget O\uc0\u64259 ce\
(CBO) report noted the paucity of relevant research and then used estimates for teen minimum\
wage elasticities to extrapolate the total impact on low-wage jobs.\
In this paper we propose a novel method to identify the overall employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the\
minimum wage together with its e\uc0\u64256 ect on the shape of the frequency distribution of wages.\
The basic idea behind our approach is summarized in Figure 1, which shows a hypothetical\
frequency distribution of wages with and without a statutory minimum wage. The binding\
minimum wage will directly a\uc0\u64256 ect jobs that were previously paying below the new minimum\
wage. These jobs may either be destroyed or shifted into compliance with the mandated\
minimum. The jobs shifted into compliance create a \'93bunching\'94 at and slightly above the\
minimum. Crucially, the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution fades out\
and becomes negligible beyond a certain point. Therefore, the overall employment and\
wage e\uc0\u64256 ects of the policy can be inferred from the localized employment changes around\
the minimum wage. In particular, we derive the changes in employment from the di\uc0\u64256 erence\
between the number of excess jobs at and slightly above the minimum wage and the number\
of missing jobs below the minimum.\
We apply this bunching approach to the U.S. context. The main empirical challenge is to\
uncover the counterfactual wage distribution in absence of the minimum wage. Instead of\
using either ad hocfunctional forms (Meyer and Wise 1983, Dickens, Machin and Manning\
1998) or the distribution prior to the minimum wage increase (Harasztosi and Lindner 2016)\
we exploit state-level variation in the minimum wage and compare states with and without\
minimum wage changes using a di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences strategy. In particular, we implement\
an event study analysis that exploits 138 prominent state-level minimum wage increases\
1\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 4 of 116]\
between 1979 and 2016. We estimate employment changes in each dollar wage bin relative\
to the new minimum wage for three years prior to and \uc0\u64257 ve years following an event. Our\
empirical approach, therefore, decomposes the aggregate employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the policy into\
constituent wage bins, and we use these bin-by-bin estimates to calculate the missing jobs\
below and excess jobs at and above the minimum wage.\
There are several advantages of our bunching method relative to the more standard\
approach that estimates the disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ect using aggregate employment or wage\
changes (e.g. Meer and West, 2016). First, the bunching approach focuses on employment\
changes locally around wage levels where minimum wages are likely to play a role. When only\
a small fraction of aggregate workforce is a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage, such a localized\
approach is crucial for uncovering meaningful \'93\uc0\u64257 rst stage\'94 wage e\u64256 ects of the minimum\
wage\'97something that is not possible with the standard approach except for subgroups like\
teens. Second, by decomposing the aggregate employment impact by wage bins, we are able\
to assess employment changes in the upper tail of the wage distribution. This can provide an\
additional falsi\uc0\u64257 cation test, since large changes in the upper part of the wage distribution are\
unlikely to re\uc0\u64258 ect a causal e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage. Third, the bunching approach gains\
precision by \uc0\u64257 ltering out random shocks to jobs in the upper part of the wage distribution.\
We use hourly wage data from the 1979-2016 Current Population Survey (CPS) to estimate\
the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage by wage bins. We \u64257 nd that an average minimum wage hike\
leads to a large and signi\uc0\u64257 cant decrease in the number of jobs below the new minimum wage\
during the \uc0\u64257 ve years following implementation. At the same time, there is clear evidence\
for the emergence of excess jobs at the minimum wage. However, as expected we \uc0\u64257 nd no\
indication for the employment changes in the upper part of the wage distribution, providing\
further validation to the empirical design. We estimate that the number of excess jobs\
closely matched the number of missing jobs: the employment for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers rose by\
a statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant 2.8% (s.e. 2.9%). Our estimates also allow us to calculate the\
impact of the policy on the average wages of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers, which rose by around 6.8% (s.e.\
1.0%). The signi\uc0\u64257 cant increase in average wages of a\u64256 ected workers implies an employment\
elasticity with respect to own wage (or the labor demand elasticity in a competitive model)\
of 0.41 (s.e. 0.43), which rules out elasticities more negative than -0.45 at the 95 percent\
con\uc0\u64257 dence level.\
An additional advantage of estimating the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the frequency\
distribution of wages is that we can directly assess the extent which the direct wage e\uc0\u64256 ects of\
the minimum wage are ampli\uc0\u64257 ed by wage spillovers. We \u64257 nd that spillovers extend up to\
$3 above the minimum wage and represent around 40% of the overall wage increase from\
minimum wage changes. Interestingly, we also \uc0\u64257 nd that the bene\u64257 ts of wage spillovers are\
2\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 5 of 116]\
not equally shared: workers who had a job before the minimum wage increase (incumbents)\
experience signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage spillovers, but we do not \u64257 nd any evidence of such spillovers for\
new entrants. This asymmetry suggests that spillovers may re\uc0\u64258 ect relative pay concerns\
within the \uc0\u64257 rm (Dube, Giuliano and Leonard 2018) and the value of outside options or\
reservation wages of non-employed workers unlikely to play a key role in generating wage\
spillovers (e.g. Flinn 2006).\
Our estimates are highly robust to a wide variety of approaches to controlling for time-\
varying heterogeneity that has sometimes produced con\uc0\u64258 icting results in the existing literature\
(e.g.,Allegretto, Dube, Reich and Zipperer 2017; Neumark and Wascher 1992). Moreover,\
the shifts in the missing and excess jobs are strongly related to the timing of minimum wage\
hike\'97providing further support that we uncover the causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage.\
Both missing jobs below the new minimum and excess jobs above were close to zero prior to\
the minimum wage increase, which suggests that the treatment and the control states were\
following a parallel trend. The drop in jobs below the minimum wage is immediate, as is the\
emergence of the excess jobs at and slightly above. Over the \uc0\u64257 ve year post-treatment period,\
the magnitude of the missing jobs below the new minimum wage decreases only slightly\
underscoring the durability of the minimum wage changes studied here.\
To go beyond our overall assessment of the 138 case studies used for identi\uc0\u64257 cation, we also\
produce event-by-event estimates of the minimum wage changes. While we \uc0\u64257 nd substantial\
heterogeneity in the bite of the events, the distribution of employment e\uc0\u64256 ects are consistent\
with a null of no e\uc0\u64256 ect anywhere. For example, our event-by-event analysis \u64257 nds that the\
estimated missing jobs rose in magnitude substantially with the minimum-to-median wage\
(Kaitz) index. At the same time, the number of excess jobs also rose for these events to a\
nearly identical extent. As a consequence, there is no relationship between the employment\
estimate and the Kaitz index up to around 55 percent, con\uc0\u64257 rming that minimum wage\
changes in the U.S. we study have yet to reach a level above which signi\uc0\u64257 cant disemployment\
e\uc0\u64256 ects emerge.\
The lack of responses in overall employment might mask some heterogeneity in response\
across types of workers. Our bunching approach can be easily applied to various sub-groups.\
Moreover, the localized approach around the minimum wage allows us to estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect of\
the policy for sub-groups where only a small fraction of workers are a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum\
wage. As a result, we can provide a more complete picture on how various groups respond to\
the minimum wage.\
We examine whether there is a shift from low-skill to high-skill workers at the bottom\
of the wage distribution by partitioning workers into groups based on education and age.\
Comparing the number of excess jobs at and above the new minimum wage and missing\
3\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 6 of 116]\
jobs below it across age-by-education groups shows no evidence that low-skilled workers\
are replaced with high-skilled workers following a minimum wage increase. We also use\
demographics to predict the probability of being exposed to the minimum wage increase, and\
then assign workers to high, medium and low probability groups along the lines of Card and\
Krueger(1995). While there is considerable variation in the bite of the policy, the employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ects in these sub-groups are mostly close to zero and not statistically signi\u64257 cant. The\
similar responses across demographic groups also suggests that the bene\uc0\u64257 t of minimum wage\
policies were shared broadly.\
We are also able to provide a more comprehensive picture on responses across various\
sectors of the economy. We show that the minimum wage is likely to have a negative e\uc0\u64256 ect\
on employment in tradable sector, and manufacturing in particular\'97with an employment\
elasticity with respect to own-wage of around -1.4\'97although the estimates are imprecise. At\
the same time, the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage is close to zero in the non-tradable sectors\
(such as restaurants or retail), which employ most minimum wage workers in the U.S. today.\
This evidence suggests that the industry composition of the local economy is likely to play\
an important role in determining the disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage (Harasztosi\
and Lindner 2016).\
This paper makes several key contributions to the existing literature on minimum wages.\
First, our paper relates to the large and controversial literature on the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects\
of the minimum wages . The debate has often been concentrated on the impact on teen\
employment (Card, 1992;Neumark and Wascher, 1992;Allegretto et al., 2017;Neumark\
et al.,2014), workers in speci\uc0\u64257 c sectors (Card and Krueger, 1994;Dube et al., 2010;Katz\
and Krueger, 1992;Lester,1964), or workers earning low wages prior to the minimum wage\
increase (Abowd et al., 2000;Clemens and Wither, 2016;Currie and Fallick, 1996);, while the\
evidence on the impact on overall employment is scant. A notable exception is Meer and West\
(2016), who examine the relationship between aggregate employment at the state-level and\
minimum wage changes. Di\uc0\u64256 erent from us, they \u64257 nd a large negative employment estimate\
using variants of the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects regression on log minimum wage. To\
highlight the importance of disaggregating the aggregate employment e\uc0\u64256 ects into wage bins,\
we also calculate the bin-by-bin employment e\uc0\u64256 ects in such a speci\u64257 cation. This exercise\
produces a striking \uc0\u64257 nding: the speci\u64257 cations that indicate a large negative e\u64256 ect on aggregate\
employment seem to be driven by an unrealistically large drop in the number of jobs at the\
upper tail of the wage distribution, which is unlikely to be a causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum\
wage. We also provide an explanation for why the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect and our\
event study approach produces di\uc0\u64256 erent results. We show that the large negative e\u64256 ects on\
employment is driven entirely by inclusion of the 1980s in the sample\'97a period with very\
4\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 7 of 116]\
few minimum wage changes. However, aggregate employment changes in the 1980s turn out\
to be correlated with minimum wage changes in the 2000s. Therefore, while inclusion of the\
1980 biases the estimation of state \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects in the two way \u64257 xed e\u64256 ect approach, it does\
not a\uc0\u64256 ect our event study approach that focuses on employment changes locally around the\
event window.\
Second, our paper contributes to the extensive literature on the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum\
wage on overall wage inequality (Autor, Manning and Smith 2016; DiNardo, Fortin and\
Lemieux 1996; Lee 1999). These papers examine shifts in the wage density and assume away\
any possible disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ect. The key novelty of our approach is that by focusing on\
the frequency distribution instead of the density, we can assess the e\uc0\u64256 ect on wage inequality\
and employment at the same time.1Namely, we show that the measured wage spillovers are\
not an artifact of disemployment, which would truncate the wage distribution; and we show\
that they are unlikely to be an artifact of measurement error. Our spillover estimates are\
similar to the \uc0\u64257 ndings of Autor, Manning and Smith (2016) and Brochu et al. (2017), and\
more limited than those in Lee(1999).\
Finally, our paper is also related to the growing literature that uses bunching to elicit\
behavioral responses to public policies (Kleven 2016). Minimum wages discontinuously\
increase the cost of hiring below the wage \uc0\u64258 oor, while the extent of bunching provides prima\
facieevidence of a causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the incentive in question. However, while the standard\
bunching analysis estimates the counterfactual distribution from purely cross sectional\
variation (Chetty et al., 2013;Saez,2010), here we follow the most recent literature (Best\
and Kleven ,2013;Brown,2013) and use a di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences strategy to construct the\
counterfactual wage distribution.\
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2explains the bunching approach\
and the empirical implementation, Section 3presents the main empirical \uc0\u64257 ndings on overall\
employment e\uc0\u64256 ects, wage spillovers and heterogenous responses to the minimum wage. Section\
4demonstrates the importance of assessing employment changes far above the minimum\
wage and highlights problems with the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects estimation. Section 5\
concludes.\
1In a recent working paper, Brochu et al. (2017) use the hazard rate for wages to estimate spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects\
in the presence of disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ects.\
5\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 8 of 116]\
2 Methodology and Data\
2.1 The Bunching Framework\
Our method identi\uc0\u64257 es the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage from the employment changes at\
the bottom of the wage distribution. We illustrate our approach using Figure 1, which\
summarizes the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution. The red line shows a\
hypothetical (frequency) distribution of wages in the absence of the minimum wage. The\
blue line depicts the actual wage distribution with a minimum wage at MW.\
In the presence of a binding minimum wage, there should be no jobs below MW. In\
practice, however, some jobs observed in the data will be sub-minimum wage because of\
imperfect coverage, imperfect compliance, or measurement error. Therefore, the missing\
jobs belowMW, given by/triangleb=Emp1[w<MW ]\uc0\u8722 Emp0[w<MW ], re\u64258 ect the size of the\
bite of the minimum wage.2HereEmp1[.]andEmp0[.]are the actual and counterfactual\
frequency distributions of wages, respectively.\
Not all missing jobs below the minimum wage are destroyed. Some or all of the jobs below\
the minimum wage may be kept and their hourly pay raised to the minimum wage, creating\
a spike atMW. Some jobs may be pushed slightly above the minimum wage in order to\
maintain wage hierarchy within the \uc0\u64257 rm, or because the minimum wage raises the bargaining\
power of workers (e.g. Flinn,2011). Moreover, a minimum wage might induce low-wage\
workers to participate in job search, some of whom may \uc0\u64257 nd a job above the minimum wage.\
However, the ripple e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage are likely to fade out at certain point, which\
we denote by Win Figure 1. In the neoclassical model there can be some positive employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ects in the upper tail of the wage distribution caused by labor-labor substitution. However,\
the magnitude of these e\uc0\u64256 ects are negligible in practice.3In models with labor market friction,\
2When we refer to the \'93bite\'94 of the minimum wage, or to the extent to which the minimum wage is\
\'93binding,\'94 we mean how e\uc0\u64256 ective the minimum wage is in raising wages at the bottom. Therefore, the bite\
is a function of (1) how many workers are earning below the new minimum wage, (2) how many of those\
workers are legally covered by the policy, and (3) the extent of compliance.\
3To see this, consider a three-factor version of the Hicks-Marshall law of derived demand with: low-skilled,\
minimum wage labor ( L); higher skilled, non-minimum wage labor ( H); and capital. The e\uc0\u64256 ect of a change\
in low-skilled wage on higher skilled labor demand is given by the formula\uc0\u8706 lnLH\
\uc0\u8706 lnwL=sL(\u963 HL\u8722 \u951 ), where\
sLis the share of minimum-wage labor in total production, \uc0\u963 HLis the elasticity of substitution between\
higher-skilled and low-skilled labor, and \uc0\u951 is the output demand elasticity. Since minimum wage workers\'92\
share of the wage bill is around 3%, and labor\'92s share of output is roughly 2/3, this implies a low-skilled\
share of production sL\uc0\u8776 2%.Katz and Murphy (1992) estimates \u963 HL\u8776 1.4and\u951 is often assumed to be 1\
(Aaronson and French, 2007). This implies a cross-wage elasticity of\uc0\u8706 lnLH\
\uc0\u8706 lnwL\u8776 0.008. For a 10% increase in\
the minimum wage in our sample, we estimate hourly wages of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers increase by 7%. This implies a\
minimum wage elasticity for higher-skilled employment of\uc0\u8706 lnLH\
\uc0\u8706 lnMW=\u8706 lnLH\
\uc0\u8706 lnwL\'d7\u8706 lnwL\
\uc0\u8706 lnMW\u8776 0.008\'d70.7 = 0.0056.\
Therefore, any plausible estimate of minimum wage impact on upper-tail employment should be very small.\
We also empirically show the absence of an e\uc0\u64256 ect on the upper tail of the distribution using our event-based\
6\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 9 of 116]\
wage spillovers also typically fade out, because workers and \uc0\u64257 rms in the upper tail of the\
wage distribution are operating in di\uc0\u64256 erent labor market segments (see Van den Berg and\
Ridder 1998 andEngbom and Moser 2017 for examples of such models).\
We assess the employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on low-wage workers by summing\
the missing and excess jobs, /triangleb+/trianglea. Such an estimator is analogous to the \'93bunching\'94\
method developed in the recent public \uc0\u64257 nance literature, which uses bunching around points\
that feature discontinuities in incentives to elicit behavioral responses (Kleven, 2016). The\
minimum wage creates a discontinuity (a notch) by making it very costly to hire a worker\
below a certain wage level, and the changes in the frequency distribution of wages identify\
the behavioral responses to this policy. As is typical with the bunching approach, the spike\
at the minimum wage and the elevated mass slightly above it provides prima facie evidence\
of a causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the incentive in question. An additional feature of the estimator is that it\
focuses on employment changes at the relevant part of the wage distribution: the sum of the\
missing and excess jobs is in fact equal to the employment change below a wage threshold\
W:/triangleb+/trianglea=Emp1/bracketleftBig\
w<W/bracketrightBig\
\uc0\u8722 Emp0/bracketleftBig\
w<W/bracketrightBig\
.\
There are four key advantages of focusing on the bottom of the wage distribution. First,\
the bunching approach proposed here identi\uc0\u64257 es the overall employment e\u64256 ect using changes\
locally around the new minimum wage\'97the part of the wage distribution where we expect\
the policy to play a role. This variation is highly informative, yet rarely exploited. Second,\
and more importantly, our localized approach allows us to estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ects on overall\
employment and on subgroups where the standard approaches often fail to provide meaningful\
estimates on employment and wages. When only a small fraction of workers are directly\
a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage, the e\u64256 ect on the average wage of such subgroups will be very\
small. Without a clear wage e\uc0\u64256 ect, it is not clear how to interpret the size of any employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ect found for those groups.4\
Third, our approach locates the source of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects within the wage distri-\
bution, and so one can use the upper tail employment changes as a falsi\uc0\u64257 cation test.5Since\
large changes in jobs paying above $15 are unlikely to re\uc0\u64258 ect the causal e\u64256 ect of the minimum\
design in section 3.\
4In the Online Appendix Table A.1we demonstrate that the standard approach, which looks at the\
wage and employment e\uc0\u64256 ects aggregated over the entire wage distribution, fails to produce positive and\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ects in most cases. This indicates that the standard approach fails to capture\
the program e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage for these subgroups. At the same time, our bunching based estimates\
always produce sizable and signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ects. The own-wage elasticity of employment estimated using\
minimum wage variation is e\uc0\u64256 ectively a Wald-IV estimate; hence the lack of a strong \'93\u64257 rst stage\'94 means\
estimates are biased towards the OLS estimate obtained by naively regressing employment on wages (Bound,\
Jaeger and Baker, 1995).\
5This idea is similar to Autor et al. (2016) who use unrealistically large spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects to validate the\
empirical model in use.\
7\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 10 of 116]\
wage, reporting such employment changes in the upper tail can be highly informative about\
model validity. Moreover, the potential bias from the confounding factors a\uc0\u64256 ecting the upper\
tail can be especially large when only a small fraction of the workforce is directly a\uc0\u64256 ected\
by the minimum wage (as is true in the U.S.). The contribution of these omitted variables\
may be sizable compared to the relatively small expected e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on\
aggregate employment. As a result, the bias arising from shocks to the upper tail can be\
particularly severe when we are interested in estimating the overall employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of\
the minimum wage. Fourth, even if changes in the upper tail do not bias the estimates, the\
bunching approach often improves the precision of estimates by \uc0\u64257 ltering out random shocks\
to jobs in the upper part of the wage distribution.6\
2.2 Empirical Implementation\
The key empirical challenge in implementing the bunching approach is to estimate the\
counterfactual wage frequency distribution in absence of a minimum wage increase. We\
exploit state-level variation in minimum wage changes occurring between 1979 and 2016,\
and identify the counterfactual distribution using an event study design. We use a similar\
framework as Autor et al. (2006) and examine employment changes within an 8 year window\
around 138 prominent state-level minimum wage events, where states increased their minimum\
wage by at least $0.25, and where at least 2% of the workers were directly a\uc0\u64256 ected by the\
increase.7\
Instead of estimating the e\uc0\u64256 ect of these events on quarterly aggregate employment, we\
disaggregate employment into $0.25 wage bins. Our basic regression speci\uc0\u64257 cation is the\
following:\
Esjt\
Nst=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 317/summationdisplay\
k=\uc0\u8722 4\u945 \u964 kI\u964 k\
sjt+\'b5sj+\uc0\u961 jt+Wsjt+usjt (1)\
whereEsjtis the employment in $0.25 wage bin jin statesand at quarter t, whileNstis\
the size of the population in state sand quarter t. The treatment dummy I\uc0\u964 k\
sjtequals to\
1 if the minimum wage was raised \uc0\u964 years from date tand for the $0.25 wage bins jthat\
fall between kandk+ 1dollars of the new minimum wage. This de\uc0\u64257 nition implies that\
\uc0\u964 = 0represents the \u64257 rst year following the minimum wage increase (i.e., the quarter of\
6Online Appendix Table A.2con\uc0\u64257 rms that the standard errors tend to be lower with the bunching approach\
compared to an approach using aggregate employment.\
7We exclude federal increases from our primary sample of events because for these events, the change\
in missing number of jobs, Db, is identi\uc0\u64257 ed only from time-series variation\'97as there are no \'93control states\'94\
with a wage \uc0\u64258 oor lower then the new minimum wage. However we show below that our employment and\
wage estimates are similar when we include federal events as well.\
8\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 11 of 116]\
treatment and the subsequent three quarters), and \uc0\u964 =\u8722 1is the year (four quarters) prior\
to treatment. Moreover, the I\uc0\u964 k\
sjttreatment variables are not only a function of state and\
time, but also of the wage bins. For instance, k= 0represents the four $0.25 bins between\
MWandMW +$0.99andk=\uc0\u8722 1is a \'93below\'94 bin with wages paying between MW\u8722 $0.01\
andMW\uc0\u8722 $1.00. Our benchmark speci\u64257 cation also controls for state-by-wage bin and\
period-by-wage bin e\uc0\u64256 ects, \'b5sjand\u961 jt. This allows us to control for state-speci\u64257 c factors\
in the earnings distribution and also the nation-wide evolution of wage inequality. Finally,\
Wsjtinclude controls for small or federal increases.8We cluster our standard errors by state,\
which is the level at which policy is assigned. Our standard errors, therefore, account for\
the possibility that employment changes at di\uc0\u64256 erent parts of the wage distribution may be\
correlated within a state.\
The estimated \uc0\u945 \u964 kallow us to calculate the change in employment throughout the\
wage distribution in response to the policy. The change in the number jobs (per capita)\
paying below the new minimum wage between event date \uc0\u8722 1and\u964 can be calculated as:\
/summationtext\uc0\u8722 1\
k=\uc0\u8722 4\u945 \u964 k\u8722 /summationtext\u8722 1\
k=\uc0\u8722 4\u945 \u8722 1k. To be clear, this is a di\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences estimate, as it nets\
outthechangeinthecounterfactualdistributionimplicitlyde\uc0\u64257 nedbytheregressionequation 1.\
Analogously, the change in the number of jobs (per capita) paying between the minimum wage\
andWis/summationtextW\uc0\u8722 MW\
k=0\uc0\u945 \u964 k\u8722 /summationtextW\u8722 MW\
k=0\uc0\u945 \u8722 1k. For our baseline estimates, we set W=MW + 4.9\
We de\uc0\u64257 ne the excess jobs at or above the minimum wage as Da\u964 =/summationtext4\
k=0\uc0\u945 \u964 k\u8722 /summationtext4\
k=0\uc0\u945 \u8722 1k\
EPOP \uc0\u8722 1, and\
the missing jobs below as Db\uc0\u964 =/summationtext\u8722 1\
k=\uc0\u8722 4\u945 \u964 k\u8722 /summationtext\u8722 1\
k=\uc0\u8722 4\u945 \u8722 1k\
EPOP \uc0\u8722 1. By dividing the employment changes\
byEPOP\uc0\u8722 1, the sample average employment-to-population ratio in treated states during\
the year (four quarters) prior to treatment, we normalize the excess and missing jobs by the\
pre-treatment total employment. The Da\uc0\u964 andDb\u964 values plot out the evolution of excess and\
missing jobs over event time \uc0\u964 . We also report the excess and missing employment estimates\
averaged over the \uc0\u64257 ve years following the minimum wage increase, Db=1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0Db\u964 and\
Da=1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0Da\u964 .\
Given our normalization, De=Da+Dbrepresents the bunching estimate for the percent-\
age change in total employment due to the minimum wage increase. If we divide this by the\
percentage change in the minimum wage averaged across our events, %DMW, we obtain the\
8Our primary minimum wage events exclude very small increases. To ensure they do not confound our\
main e\uc0\u64256 ects, we include controls for these small events. We also separately control for federal minimum wages.\
In particular, separately for small events and federal events, we construct a set of 6 variables by interacting\
\{BELOW,ABOVE \}\'d7\{EARLY,PRE,POST \}. HereBELOW andABOVE are dummies equal to 1 for\
all wage bins that are within $4 below and above the new minimum, respectively; EARLY ,PREandPOST\
are dummies that take on 1 if \uc0\u8722 3\u8804 \u964 \u8804 \u8722 2,\u964 =\u8722 1, or 0\u8804 \u964 \u8804 4, respectively. These two sets of 6 variables\
are included as controls in the regression ( Wsjtin the equation 1).\
9Online Appendix Table A.5shows the results are robust to higher cuto\uc0\u64256 s.\
9\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 12 of 116]\
employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage:\
%DTotal Employment\
%DMW=Da+Db\
%DMW\
We de\uc0\u64257 ne the percentage change in a\u64256 ected employment as the change in employment divided\
by the (sample average) share of the workforce earning below the new minimum wage the\
year before treatment, b\uc0\u8722 1:10\
%DA\uc0\u64256 ected Employment = %De=Da+Db\
b\uc0\u8722 1\
We also use the estimated coe\uc0\u64259 cients to compute the percentage change in the average\
hourly wage for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers. We calculate the average wage by taking the ratio of the\
total wage bill collected by workers below the new minimum wage to the number of such\
workers. Prior to treatment, it is equal to w\uc0\u8722 1=wb\u8722 1/b\u8722 1. Here the wage bill, wb\u8722 1, and the\
number of workers earning below the new minimum wage just prior to the increase, b\uc0\u8722 1, are\
averages for the full sample of events. The minimum wage increase causes both the wage bill\
and employment to change. The new average wage in the post-treatment period is equal to\
w=/parenleftBig\
wb\uc0\u8722 1+Dwb/parenrightBig\
//parenleftBig\
b\uc0\u8722 1+De/parenrightBig\
.11Therefore, the percentage change in the average wage of\
a\uc0\u64256 ected workers is given by:\
%Dw=w\
w\uc0\u8722 1\u8722 1 =wb\u8722 1+Dwb\
b\uc0\u8722 1+De\
wb\uc0\u8722 1\
b\uc0\u8722 1\u8722 1 =%Dwb\u8722 %De\
1 + %De(2)\
The percentage change in the average wage is obtained by taking the di\uc0\u64256 erence in percentage\
change in wage bill and employment, and dividing by the retained employment share. This\
formula implicitly assumes the average wage change of those workers exiting or entering due\
to the policy is the same as the wage of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers those who remain employed.\
10Notice that we divide by the actual share of the workforce and not by the change in it. As we pointed\
out earlier, these two are not the same if there is imperfect compliance, imperfect coverage, or measurement\
error in wages. While both divisions are meaningful, dividing by the actual share is the more policy relevant\
elasticity. This is because policy makers can calculate the actual share of workers at the new minimum wage\
and use the estimates presented in this paper. However, the change in the jobs below the new minimum wage\
is only known after the minimum wage increase, and so it cannot be used for a prospective analysis of the\
policy\'92s impact.\
11The change in wage bill can be written as a function of our regression coe\uc0\u64259 cients as follows.\
Averaging the coe\uc0\u64259 cients over the 5 year post-treatment window, \u945 k=1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0\u945 \u964 ,k, we can write\
Dwb=/summationtext4\
k=\uc0\u8722 3/parenleftbig\
k+MW/parenrightbig\
\'b7(\uc0\u945 k\u8722 \u945 \u8722 1k), whereMWis (approximately) the sample average of the new\
minimum wage. We say approximately because kis based on $1 increments, and so MWis calculated as the\
sample mean of [MW,MW + 1).\
10\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 13 of 116]\
Finally, armed with the changes in employment and wages for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers, we estimate\
the employment elasticity with respect to own-wage (or the \'93labor demand elasticity\'94 in a\
competitive market):\
%DA\uc0\u64256 ected Employment\
%DA\uc0\u64256 ected Wage=1\
%DwDa+Db\
b\uc0\u8722 1\
We calculate the standard errors around this elasticity using the delta method.\
2.3 Data and sample construction\
Weusetheindividual-levelNBERMergedOutgoingRotationGroupoftheCurrentPopulation\
Survey for 1979-2016 (CPS) to calculate quarterly, state-level distributions of hourly wages.\
For hourly workers, we use the reported hourly wage, and for other workers we de\uc0\u64257 ne the\
hourly wage to be their usual weekly earnings divided by usual weekly hours. We do not\
use any observations with imputed wage data in order to minimize the role of measurement\
error.12There are no reliable imputation data for January 1994 through August 1995, so\
we exclude this entire period from our sample. Our available sample of employment counts\
therefore spans 1979q1 through 1993q4 and 1995q4 through 2016q4.13\
We de\uc0\u64258 ate wages to 2016 dollars using the CPI-U-RS and for a given real hourly wage\
assign its earner a $0.25 wage bin wrunning from $0.00 to $30.00.14For each of these 117\
wage bins we collapse the data into quarterly, state-level employment counts Eswtusing the\
person-level ORG sampling weights. We use estimates for state-level population aged 16 and\
over,Nst, from the CPS-MORG (which in turn is based on the Census), as the denominator\
for constructing per-capita counts. Our primary sample includes all wage earners and the\
entire state population, but below we also explore the heterogeneity of our results using\
di\uc0\u64256 erent subgroups, where the bite of the policy varies.\
Theaggregatestate-quarter-levelemploymentcountsfromtheCPSaresubjecttosampling\
12The NBER CPS merged ORG data are available at http://www.nber.org/morg/ . Wage imputation\
status markers in the CPS vary and are not comparable across time. In general we follow Hirsch and\
Schumacher (2004) to de\uc0\u64257 ne wage imputations. During 1979-1988 and September 1995-2016, we de\u64257 ne wage\
imputations as records with positive BLS allocation values for hourly wages (for hourly workers) and weekly\
earnings or hours (for other workers). For 1989-1993, we de\uc0\u64257 ne imputations as observations with missing\
or zero \'93unedited\'94 earnings but positive \'93edited\'94 earnings (which we also do for hours worked and hourly\
wages).\
13In general, there has been an increase in the rate of imputation over time. However, in the Online\
Appendix, we show that minimum wage raises are not systematically related to changes in the imputation\
rate. Event study estimates for the e\uc0\u64256 ect of minimum wages on the imputation rate show no substantial or\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant change 3 years before and 5 years after the treatment. (See Online Appendix Table\
A.3and Online Appendix Figure A.2.)\
14We assign all wages between $0 and $1 to a single bin and all wages above $30 to the $30 bin. The\
resulting 117 wage bins are (0.00, 1.25), [1.25, 1.50),..., [29.75, 30.00), [30,\uc0\u8734 ).\
11\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 14 of 116]\
error, which reduces the precision of our estimates. To address this issue, we benchmark the\
CPS aggregate employment-to-population ratio to the implied employment-to-population\
ratio from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW), which is a near universe\
of quarterly employment (but lacks information on hourly wages). Online Appendix E explains\
the QCEW benchmarking in detail. As we discuss below, the QCEW benchmarking has little\
e\uc0\u64256 ect on our point estimates, but substantially increases their statistical precision.\
Our estimation of the change in jobs paying below and above a new minimum wage\
requires us to specify minimum wage increasing events. For state-level minimum wage levels,\
we use the quarterly maximum of the state-level daily minimum wage series described in\
Vaghul and Zipperer (2016).15For the 138 minimum wage events, on average, 8.6% of workers\
were below the new minimum wage in the year before these 138 events and the mean real\
minimum wage increase was 10.1%.16\
One concern when using $0.25 bins and CPS data is that some of the bins may be sparse\
with very few or no workers. However, we stress that our employment estimate is based\
on the sumof employment changes in 36 cells covering a $9 range [MW\uc0\u8722 $4,MW +$4],\
summed over at least four quarters (typically twenty quarters). As a result, small or zero\
employment in particular cells is not a major concern. In each state, there are, on average,\
around 7 workers each quarter in each of the $0.25 bins between $5 and $15/hour in our\
sample.17Since the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for our event dummies are estimated at a $1-bin-year-state\
level, on average, for each of these we use around 112 individual-level observations per event.\
Moreover, when we assess the total employment e\uc0\u64256 ects, we calculate the sum of the $1-bin\
estimates between $4 below and $4 above the minimum wage, and we consider 5 year averages.\
This implies that, on average, we use approximately 5,040 individual worker observations\
per event. This is a well-sized sample which allows a reliable estimate of the true counts of\
employment for each event. Consistent with this point, we note that our approach is very\
similar to a simpler method of estimating a regression using state-by-quarter data, where\
the outcomes are the number of jobs or total wage bill under, say, $15/hour divided by\
population. We show below that the resulting employment and wage estimates (and standard\
errors) are very similar when using the simpler method.\
Another potential concern with the data is that misreporting of wages in the CPS may\
bias our estimates. If reported wages contain some measurement error, some workers earning\
15The minimum wage series is available at https://github.com/benzipperer/historicalminwage/\
releases.\
16All minimum wage increases including our events are shown in Online Appendix Figure A.1\
17Overall, we have 847,314 wage bin-state-period observations, which we obtained from 4,694,104 individual\
level observations, producing a count of 5.5 workers per $0.25 bin. However, the count per bin is higher in\
the $5-to-$15/hour range because the upper tail wage bins are more sparse. The $5-to-$15/hour range is the\
relevant one since it contains the [MW\uc0\u8722 $4,MW +$4]windows for all of our events.\
12\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 15 of 116]\
above the minimum wage will appear to earn below it, which could attenuate the estimate\
forDb. However, this does not a\uc0\u64256 ect the consistency of the estimate for Da+Dbas long as\
the the minimum wage only a\uc0\u64256 ects reported wages below W. The reason is straightforward.\
Assume that 1% of the workforce mistakenly report earning below the new minimum wage\
in the post-treatment period. This would lead our estimate of the missing jobs to be too\
small in magnitude: \'88Db=Db+ 0.01. However, this misreporting would also lead to an equal\
reduction in the number of excess jobs above, producing the estimate \'88Da=Da\uc0\u8722 0.01; this\
will be true as long as these misreported workers are coming from the range [MW,W), which\
is likely to be satis\uc0\u64257 ed for a wide variety of classical and non-classical measurement error\
processes where the support of the measurement error is contained in [MW\uc0\u8722 W,W\u8722 MW ].\
Therefore, the employment estimate \'88Da+\'88Dbis likely to be una\uc0\u64256 ected by measurement error\
in reported wages. We also directly assess how misreporting of wages in the CPS may a\uc0\u64256 ect\
our results in Online Appendix D, where we compare the CPS hourly wage distribution to\
micro-aggregated administrative data on hourly wages from three U.S. states that collect this\
information. Reassuringly, the evolution of the number of jobs paying below the minimum\
wage, and the number of jobs paying up to $5 above the minimum wage in the CPS data\
from these three states match quite well with their counterparts using administrative data.18\
3 Results\
We begin our analysis by estimating the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the frequency\
distribution of hourly wages. Figure 2shows the results from our baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation (see\
equation 1). We report employment changes averaged over the \uc0\u64257 ve year post-treatment\
period,1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0\u945 \u964 k, for each dollar wage bin ( k) relative to the minimum wage. Recall that all\
employment changes are normalized to pre-treatment total employment in the state. Several\
points should be noted.\
First, there is a clear and signi\uc0\u64257 cant drop in the number of jobs below the new minimum\
wage, amounting to 1.8% (s.e. 0.4%) of the total pre-treatment employment.19Almost3\
4of\
18InOnline Appendix E, we also structurally estimate a model of measurement error in reported wages\
proposed by Autor, Manning and Smith (2016), and show that the contribution of misreporting error to the\
overall variance in wages in the CPS and in administrative data on hourly wages from three U.S. states are\
very similar. Furthermore, we semi-parametrically deconvolve the CPS wage distribution using the estimated\
measurement error model and show that the bunching estimates using this measurement error corrected\
distribution are very similar to the baseline estimates.\
19The discrepancy between the actual number of jobs below the new minimum, which is 8.6% of total pre\
treatment employment on average, and the change in the number of jobs below it, which is 1.8% on average,\
can be explained by the following factors. First, some of the jobs below the minimum wage (e.g. tipped\
workers) are exempted from the minimum wage in most states. Second, there are often multiple changes in\
the minimum wage in a relatively short period. In these cases, the cumulative e\uc0\u64256 ect of the various treatments\
13\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 16 of 116]\
this reduction occurs in the $1 wage bin just under the new minimum. Second, there is also\
a clear and signi\uc0\u64257 cant increase in jobs just at the new minimum wage (at the $0 wage bin).\
Third, there is also a statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant increase in employment in the wage bin $3 above\
the new minimum and modest, statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant increases in the $1 and $2 bins. This\
pattern of employment changes is consistent with limited wage spillovers resulting from the\
minimum wage increase, as suggested in Autor, Manning and Smith (2016).20Fourth, the\
excess jobs between the new minimum and $4 above it represents 2.1% (s.e. 0.3%) of the\
total pre-treatment employment. Finally, the employment changes in the upper tail wage\
bins, from $5 above the minimum wage to $17 or more (the \uc0\u64257 nal bin), are all small in size\
and statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant\'97both individually as well as cumulatively as shown by the red\
line, which represents the running sum of employment changes.\
The bunching estimate for employment change adds the missing jobs below and excess\
jobs above the minimum wage: /trianglea+/triangleb. We divide this change by the jobs below the new\
minimum wage ( b\uc0\u8722 1= 8.6%) to obtain a change in the a\u64256 ected employment of 2.8% (s.e.\
2.9%), which is positive but statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant. We can also divide the employment\
change Da+Dbby the sample-averaged minimum wage increase of 10.1% to calculate the\
employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage of 0.024 (s.e. 0.025). This estimate\
is statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant, and the 95% con\u64257 dence interval rules out substantial reductions\
in the aggregate employment, including the baseline aggregate employment elasticity of -0.074\
inMeer and West (2016) (see their Table 4). The most common minimum wage employment\
elasticities are from teens; for example, Neumark and Wascher (2008) argue this falls between\
-0.1 and -0.3, while Allegretto et al. (2017) argue that it is closer to zero. However, the directly\
a\uc0\u64256 ected share of teens (43.2%) is much larger than the workforce overall (8.6%). Therefore,\
to make our estimates on overall employment comparable to the estimates for teens we can\
multiply our estimate and standard errors by the ratio of the shares 0.432/0.086=5.02. This\
leads to an a\uc0\u64256 ected-share-adjusted 95% con\u64257 dence interval of [-0.13, 0.37], which rules out\
most of the -0.1 to -0.3 range.\
Second, using the formula in equation 2we can also calculate the change in the average\
wage and the employment elasticity with respect to own wage (i.e., the labor demand elasticity\
in the competitive model). We estimate that the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on average\
wages is 6.8% (s.e. 1.0%), which is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant. The estimate for the elasticity of\
employment with respect to own wage is 0.411 (s.e. 0.430). The con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals rule out\
should be considered: when we adjust for this we \uc0\u64257 nd the change in the number of jobs below the minimum\
rises in magnitude from 1.8% to 2.5%. Third, there is some wage growth even in the absence of a minimum\
wage increase, and our event study design controls for these changes.\
20The $3 above the minimum wage is around the 23rdpercentile of the wage distribution on average. Autor,\
Manning and Smith (2016) \uc0\u64257 nds the wage spillovers are e\u64256 ectively zero at around the 25thpercentile.\
14\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 17 of 116]\
any own-wage elasticities more negative than -0.450 at the 95 percent con\uc0\u64257 dence level. Such\
a lower bound rules out many estimates in the literature that found negative employment\
elasticity (see Online Appendix Figure A.6; also, Neumark and Wascher (2008) argue that\
the own-wage employment elasticity can easily be -1 or even -2). .\
Figure3shows the changes in the missing jobs paying below the new minimum wage\
(Db\uc0\u964 ), and the excess jobs paying up to $4 above the minimum wage (Da\u964 ) over annualized\
event time using our baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation. All the estimates are expressed as changes from\
event date\uc0\u964 =\u8722 1, or the year just prior to treatment, the estimates for which are normalized\
to zero. There are four important \uc0\u64257 ndings that we would like to highlight. First, we \u64257 nd a\
very clear reduction in the jobs paying below the new minimum wage (shown in red) between\
the year just prior to treatment ( \uc0\u964 =\u8722 1)and the year of treatment (\u964 = 0)\'97this shows\
that the minimum wage increases under study are measurably binding. Second, while there\
is some reduction in the magnitude of the missing jobs in the post-treatment window, it\
continues to be very substantial and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant \u64257 ve years out, showing that\
the treatments are fairly durable over the medium run. Third, the response of the excess\
jobs at or above the new minimum ( Da) exhibits a very similar pattern in magnitudes, with\
the opposite sign. There is an unmistakable jump in excess employment at \uc0\u964 = 0, and a\
substantial portion of it persists and is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant even \u64257 ve years out. Fourth,\
for both the changes in the excess and missing jobs there is only a slight indication of a\
pre-existing trend prior to treatment. The \uc0\u964 =\u8722 2leads are statistically indistinguishable\
from zero and although there is some evidence of changes three years prior to treatment, the\
leading e\uc0\u64256 ects are very small relative to the post-treatment e\u64256 ect estimates. Moreover, the\
slight downward trend in excess jobs, and the slight upward trend in missing jobs is consistent\
with falling value of the real minimum wage prior to treatment. The sharp upward jump in\
both the excess and missing jobs at \uc0\u964 = 0, the lack of substantial pre-treatment trends, and\
the persistent post-treatment gap between the two shares all provide strong validation of\
the research design. Online Appendix Figure A.4shows analogous time paths for wages and\
employment showing sharp and persistent wage e\uc0\u64256 ect at \u964 = 0coupled with little change in\
employment over the event window\'96either before or after treatment.\
RobustnessChecks. InTable 1, weassesstherobustnessofthemainresultstoincluding\
additional controls for time-varying, unobserved heterogeneity. This is particularly important\
since results in the existing literature are often sensitive to the inclusion of various versions of\
time varying heterogeneity (e.g., Neumark, Salas and Wascher 2014 andAllegretto et al. 2017).\
In Column (1) we report the \uc0\u64257 ve-year-averaged post-treatment estimates for the baseline\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation shown in Figures 2and3. Columns (2) and (3) add wage-bin-by-state speci\u64257 c\
linear and quadratic time trends, respectively. Note that in the presence of 3 pre-treatment\
15\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 18 of 116]\
and 5 post-treatment dummies, the trends are estimated using variation outside of the 8 year\
window around the treatment, and thereby unlikely a\uc0\u64256 ected by either lagged or anticipation\
e\uc0\u64256 ects. Columns (4)-(6) additionally allow the wage-bin-period e\u64256 ects to vary by the 9\
Census divisions. Column (6) represents a highly saturated model allowing for state-speci\uc0\u64257 c\
quadratic time trends and division-period e\uc0\u64256 ects for each $0.25 wage bin.\
Overall, the estimates from the additional speci\uc0\u64257 cations are fairly similar to the baseline\
estimate. In all cases, there is a clear bite of the policy as measured by the reduction in jobs\
paying below the minimum, Db. Consistent with the presence of a substantial bite, there is\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant increase in real wages of a\u64256 ected workers in all speci\u64257 cations: these\
range between 5.7% and 6.9% with common wage-bin-period e\uc0\u64256 ects (columns 1, 2, 3, ), and\
between 4.3% and 5.0% with division-speci\uc0\u64257 c wage-bin-period e\u64256 ects (columns 4, 5 and 6).\
In contrast, the proportionate change in employment for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers is never statistically\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant, and is numerically smaller than the wage change, ranging between -1.9% and 3.6%\
across the 8 speci\uc0\u64257 cations. For most part, the employment estimates are small or positive;\
the only exception is column (5) with state-speci\uc0\u64257 c linear trends and bin-division-speci\u64257 c\
period e\uc0\u64256 ects. The employment elasticities with respect to wage are -0.449 (s.e. 0.574) .\
However, adding quadratic trends to the former speci\uc0\u64257 cation (column 6) substantially reduces\
the magnitude of the employment elasticity with respect to the wage to -0.003 (s.e. 0.455).\
Finally, column (7) provides employment and wage estimates using state-by-period panel,\
where we regress either wage bill or employment per capita under an absolute wage threshold\
(W), and then estimate the change in a\uc0\u64256 ected wage and employment using the same formulae\
as our baseline.21The estimates and standard errors for a\uc0\u64256 ected employment (0.025, se 0.029)\
and wage (0.063, se 0.011) are virtually identical to column 1, clarifying that use of wage bins\
or choices around those have no impact on our key estimates. At the same time, unlike our\
baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation, this simpler method using an absolute wage threshold cannot provide\
separate estimates for excess and missing jobs.\
We also show in Online Appendix A that our results are robust to focusing only on\
the events occurring in the states that do not allow tip credits; dropping occupations that\
allows tipping; using full-time equivalent job counts; restrict the sample to hourly workers;\
additionally using federal-level minimum wage changes for identi\uc0\u64257 cation; using the raw CPS\
data instead of the QCEW benchmarked CPS; without using population weights; and focusing\
on the post-1992 period.\
21The threshold is W= 15, which is at least $4 above the new minimum wage in all of our events but one.\
16\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 19 of 116]\
3.1 Heterogenous Responses to the Minimum Wage\
Our bunching approach can also be applied to estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on\
speci\uc0\u64257 c subgroups.\
By demographic groups. We assess the presence of labor-labor substitution at the\
bottom of the wage distribution by examining employment responses across various demo-\
graphic groups.22In Table 2we report estimates for workers without a high school degree,\
those with high school or less schooling, women, black or Hispanic individuals, and teens\
using our baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation (see equation 1).\
As expected, restricting the sample by education and age produces a larger bite. For\
example, for those without a high school degree, the missing jobs estimate, Db, is -6.5% while\
for those with high school or less schooling it is -3.2%. These estimates for the missing jobs\
are, respectively, 261% and 78% larger than the baseline estimate for the overall population\
(-1.8%, from column 1 in Table 1). Nevertheless, the large variation in the missing jobs\
across various demographic groups matched closely by excess jobs above the new minimum\
wage.23In all cases, except for the black or Hispanic group, the excess jobs are larger than\
the missing jobs indicating a positive albeit statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant employment e\u64256 ect. For\
black or Hispanic individuals, the di\uc0\u64256 erence between excess and missing jobs is negligible.\
As a result, the employment elasticities with respect to own wage range between -0.086 and\
0.570 for the \uc0\u64257 rst \u64257 ve demographic groups of the table. In all cases but one, the elasticities\
are statistically indistinguishable from zero. The sole exception is those without a high school\
degree, for whom the employment elasticity with respect to the wage is 0.475 (s.e. 0.268)\
and is marginally signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the ten percent level. The minimum wage elasticity for teens\
is 0.125, which is more positive than some of the estimates in the literature, though we note\
that it is not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant given a standard error of 0.134.24\
In addition, we examine the e\uc0\u64256 ects on groups of workers with di\u64256 erential probability of\
being exposed to the minimum wage changes. To determine the likelihood of exposure, we\
22Existing evidence on labor-labor substitution has typically focused on speci\uc0\u64257 c groups like teens (Giuliano,\
2013), individual case studies (Fairris and Bujanda, 2008), or speci\uc0\u64257 c segments like online labor platforms\
(Horton, 2018).\
23InOnline Appendix A we also show that the close match between excess jobs and missing jobs holds also\
if we fully partition the workforce into 23 age-education cells.\
24It should be noted that the teen estimates are unrelated to the use of bunching method, since the bene\uc0\u64257 ts\
of focusing on employment changes around the minimum wage is small for groups where most workers are\
low wage ones. In Online Appendix Table A.10we show that our event study estimates are close to zero for\
teens even if we use overallteen employment. At the same time, the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cation\
with log minimum wage (TWFE-logMW) generates a sizable negative estimate for teens and for overall\
employment as well. In Section 4 we discuss this discrepancy and argue that the di\uc0\u64256 erence between our\
approach and TWFE-logMW are driven by how the two empirical model a\uc0\u64256 ected by employment changes\
occurring many years before the minimum wage hike.\
17\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 20 of 116]\
construct a prediction model analogous to Card and Krueger (1995). We use observations\
from three years prior to the 138 events that also lie outside any of the 5-year post-treatment\
windows and we estimate a linear probability model of having a wage less than 125% of the\
statutory minimum wage on a rich set of demographic predictors.25We use the estimated\
model to obtain predicted probabilities of being exposed to minimum wage increases for\
all individuals in the sample regardless of their actual employment status. We then use\
the predicted probabilities to place individuals in three groups: a \'93high probability\'94 group\
that contains individuals in the top 10 percent of the predicted probability distribution; a\
\'93low probability\'94 group that contains workers in the bottom 50 percent of the predicted\
probabilities; and a middle group containing the rest.\
As expected, the high probability group shows a considerably larger bite ( Db=\uc0\u8722 9.4%)\
than the middle group ( Db=\uc0\u8722 2.0%), and the low probability group ( Db=\u8722 0.4%). At the\
same time the employment elasticities are very similar across the three Card and Krueger\
probability groups. It is worth mentioning that the most precise estimate for the parameter\
in this paper appears in column (6) of Table 2, where we look only locally around the\
minimum wage and also focus on the high probability group: the con\uc0\u64257 dence interval rejects\
any value smaller than -0.251 and larger than 0.663. Such a con\uc0\u64257 dence interval is quite narrow\
and rejects many estimates in the literature\'97highlighting the gains from combining the\
demographic pro\uc0\u64257 ling approach of Card and Krueger with the bunching approach advanced\
in this paper. The employment elasticities for the other groups are similar in magnitude,\
though less precise.26\
Overall, these \uc0\u64257 ndings provide little evidence of heterogeneity in the employment e\u64256 ect\
by skill level; the lack of a reduction in overall low-wage jobs does not appear to mask a shift\
in employment from low-skill to high-skill workers.\
By industrial sectors. Much of the literature has focused on speci\uc0\u64257 c sectors like\
restaurants where the minimum wage is particularly binding\'97therefore making it easier\
to detect a clear e\uc0\u64256 ect on the sectoral wage. In contrast, by focusing on changes at the\
bottom of the distribution, our approach can recover employment and wage responses even\
25We use the exact same predictors as in Card and Krueger (1995): all three-way interactions of non-white,\
gender, and teen indicators; all three-way interactions of non-white, gender, and age 20-25 indicators; less than\
high school dummy variable; continuous highest grade completed variable; up to third order polynomial in\
labor-market experience ; Hispanic ethnicity indicator; interactions of the education and experience variables\
with gender. Cengiz(2018) shows the predictions using this Card and Krueger model compare favorably with\
those from more sophisticated machine learning based methods.\
26InOnline Appendix A we show that if we estimate the impact of the events on the aggregate wage and\
employment outcomes for each of the three probability groups, we can obtain a clear wage e\uc0\u64256 ect only for the\
high probability group\'97capturing only around 36% of all minimum wage workers. This highlights the value\
of focusing at the bottom of the wage distribution which allows us to get an overall estimate for all low wage\
workers.\
18\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 21 of 116]\
in industries where only a small fraction of workers are directly a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum\
wage increase. This allows us to provide a more comprehensive assessment of the e\uc0\u64256 ect of\
the policy across a range of industries.\
In Table 3 we report estimates for various sectors in the economy. We assign workers to\
tradable and non-tradable sectors following Mian and Su\uc0\u64257  (2014).27The table shows that the\
bite of the minimum wage varies a lot across industries. The minimum wage is highly binding\
in the restaurant sector with a missing jobs estimate of 10.1%, while it does not appear to be\
binding in the construction sector. The minimum wage is more binding in the non-tradable\
sector (6.6%) than in the tradable sector (1.6%) or in the manufacturing sector (1.7%).\
The e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on employment also varies by sector. We \u64257 nd that\
the number of excess jobs at and above the minimum wage is smaller than the missing\
jobs in the tradable sector, and so the employment e\uc0\u64256 ect is negative (-11.1%, s.e. 13.6%),\
albeit not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant. Similarly, the point estimate in the manufacturing sector\
suggests that around 10.1% (s.e. 14.5%) of the jobs directly a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage\
are destroyed. The implied employment elasticity with respect to own wage is quite large in\
magnitude in both sectors (-1.910 in the tradable and -1.385 in manufacturing), although the\
estimates are imprecise and statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant.\
At the same time, we \uc0\u64257 nd no indication for negative disemployment e\u64256 ects in the non-\
tradable, restaurant, and retail sectors where most minimum wage workers are employed in\
the U.S. The employment elasticity with respect to own wage in the non-tradable sector is\
positive (0.387, s.e. 0.597), which is in stark contrast to the tradable sector, where we \uc0\u64257 nd\
a large negative elasticity. Harasztosi and Lindner (2016) \uc0\u64257 nd similar sectoral patterns in\
Hungary and argue, using revenue data, that the larger job losses for tradable re\uc0\u64258 ect a more\
elastic consumer demand in that sector.\
By pre-treatment employment status. We consider the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage\
separately on workers who were employed prior to the minimum wage increase (incumbent\
workers) and for new entrants into the labor market. We partition our sample of wage earners\
into incumbent workers and new entrants by exploiting the fact that the CPS interviews each\
respondent twice, exactly one year apart.28The partition limits our sample to the 1980-2016\
27Mian and Su\uc0\u64257  (2014) de\u64257 ne \'93tradable\'94 industries as having either the sum of imports and exports\
exceeding $10,000 per worker or $500 million total; their \'93non-tradable\'94 sector consists of a subset of\
restaurant and retail industries; \'93construction\'94 consists of construction, real estate or land development-\
related industries. We use the list in Mian and Su\uc0\u64257  (2014) of 4-digit NAICS industries and Census industry\
crosswalks to categorize all the industries in the CPS for 1992-2016. In our sample the shares of employment\
are 13%, 14%, 10%, for tradable, non-tradable, construction, respectively. See more details in Online Appendix\
D. Since consistent industrial classi\uc0\u64257 cations limit our sample to the 1992-2016 period, we \u64257 rst replicate our\
benchmark analysis using all industries for this restricted sample in column (1) in Table 3. The estimated\
employment and wage e\uc0\u64256 ects on this restricted sample are similar to the full 1979-2016 sample.\
28All CPS respondents are interviewed for four months in the \uc0\u64257 rst interview period, then rotated out of\
19\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 22 of 116]\
time period covering 137 eligible minimum wage-raising events and also restricts our time\
window to one year around the minimum wage increase rather than the \uc0\u64257 ve years in our\
baseline sample.\
Figure4shows the event study estimates for new entrants (panel a) and incumbents\
(panel b) for each k-dollar wage bin relative to the new minimum wage. For both subgroups,\
new minimum wages clearly bind, with signi\uc0\u64257 cantly fewer jobs just below and signi\u64257 cant\
more at the new minimum. This highlight that studies that restricts its sample to incumbent\
workers (e.g. Abowd et al. 2000; Currie and Fallick 1996; Clemens and Wither 2016) can\
only provide a partial characterization of the full e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage increase, since\
new entrants are also a\uc0\u64256 ected by the policy.\
For both groups the excess jobs closely match the missing jobs (for incumbents Da= 1.3%\
andDb=\uc0\u8722 1.2%and for new entrants Da= 0.6%andDb=\u8722 0.5%) and so the net\
employment changes are approximately zero. The green and blue solid lines show the running\
sums of employment changes up to the corresponding wage bin for each group. The lines show\
that in both cases there is little change in upper tail employment. We note that if employers\
are replacing lower skilled workers with higher skilled ones, we should expect to see some\
reduction in jobs for previously employed workers, perhaps o\uc0\u64256 set by high skilled entrants;\
the lack of job loss for incumbents provides additional evidence against such labor-labor\
substitution. The a\uc0\u64256 ected wage increase for incumbents (9.5%, s.e. 2.0%) is signi\u64257 cantly\
larger than it is for new entrants (1.9%, s.e. 1.3% ) and some of these di\uc0\u64256 erences can be\
explained by the lack of spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects for the new entrants. In the next section we return\
to this issue.\
3.2 Wage spillovers\
So far we have focused on the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage. However, an equally\
important question is understanding the nature of the wage e\uc0\u64256 ects. In this section, we\
quantify the direct e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage and the indirect e\u64256 ect that comes from wage\
spillovers.\
We calculate the direct (or \'93no spillover\'94) wage increase by moving each missing job\
under the new minimum wage exactly to the new minimum wage:\
%Dwno spillover =/summationtext\uc0\u8722 1\
k=\uc0\u8722 4k(\u945 k\u8722 \u945 \u8722 1k)\
wb\uc0\u8722 1(3)\
the survey for eight months, and then rotated back into the survey for a \uc0\u64257 nal four months of interviews. In\
the fourth month of each interview period (the \'93outgoing rotation group\'94), respondents are asked questions\
about wages. Appendix Online Appendix D explains how we match workers across rotation groups.\
20\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 23 of 116]\
The total wage increase of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers, %Dw, in equation 2incorporates both this direct\
e\uc0\u64256 ect as well as the add-on e\u64256 ect from wage spillovers. Therefore, the di\u64256 erence between the\
two measures, %Dw\uc0\u8722 %Dwno spillover , provides an estimate of the size of the wage spillovers.\
Note that our spillover estimates use the frequency distribution of wages, which contrasts\
with the earlier literature relying on the density of wages (see e.g. Card and Krueger 1995;\
DiNardo, Fortin and Lemieux 1996; Lee 1999; Autor, Manning and Smith 2016). As a result,\
changes in employment\'97which could create an arti\uc0\u64257 cial spillover e\u64256 ect when using the wage\
density\'97do not a\uc0\u64256 ect our estimates.\
We report our estimates of wage spillovers in Table 4, where the columns show estimates\
of the total wage e\uc0\u64256 ect %Dw,the \'93no spillover\'94 wage e\u64256 ect %Dwno spillover , and the spillover\
share of the total wage increase calculated as%Dw\uc0\u8722 %Dwno spillover\
%Dw. The \uc0\u64257 rst row shows the\
estimated e\uc0\u64256 ects for the entire workforce. Column (1) repeats the estimated total wage e\u64256 ect\
from Column (1) in Table 1, which is 6.8% (s.e. 1.0%). Column (2) shows that in the absence\
of spillovers, wages would increase by 4.1% (s.e. 0.9%). Column (3) shows that 39.7% (s.e.\
11.9%) of the total wage e\uc0\u64256 ect is caused by the ripple e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage.\
In Table 4we also report estimates for several subgroups. The share of spillovers in the\
total wage increase is relatively similar for several key demographic groups, such as those\
without a high school degree (37.0%), teens (34.7%), those without a college degree (40.2%),\
and women (35.9%). In most cases, the spillover share is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cantly di\u64256 erent\
from zero at the 5 percent level. One exception is Black or Hispanic individuals, for whom\
the estimated share of wage spillover is much smaller at 17.9% (s.e. 26.5%), which is less\
than half of the 39.7% (s.e. 11.9%) spillover share for all workers. Although the di\uc0\u64256 erence\
is not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant, this \u64257 nding nonetheless suggests that the wage gains at the\
bottom may be more muted for some disadvantaged groups.29\
We also \uc0\u64257 nd a substantially smaller change in wages due to spillovers in the tradable\
sector, though the estimates here are a bit imprecise. This highlights that wage a\uc0\u64256 ects are\
small in the tradable sector and some of it might be possibly undone by clawbacks from\
higher wage workers. The combination of this evidence and the disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ects suggest\
that there may be more unintended consequences of minimum wages when the tradable sector\
constitutes a more sizable share of the a\uc0\u64256 ected workforce.\
We also \uc0\u64257 nd a stark di\u64256 erence in the spillover shares of wage increases for incumbents\
versus new entrants. Incumbents receive a larger total wage increase (9.5%) than the overall\
workforce (6.8%), but the spillover share for incumbents and all workers is relatively similar\
(42.2% and 39.7%, respectively). In contrast, the spillover share for entrants is -17.8%,\
29The smaller spillover for Black/Hispanic workers is not due to sectoral or incumbency composition, which\
are very similar to other workers (results not reported).\
21\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 24 of 116]\
suggesting that essentially all of the wage increase received by new entrants is through the\
creation of jobs at or very close to the new minimum. Larger spillovers for incumbents relative\
to entrants can also be seen in Figure 4. Two points should be noted.\
First, the stark di\uc0\u64256 erences in the size and scope of spillovers for the incumbent and for\
the new entrants are inconsistent with a simple measurement error process common to both\
groups. This suggest that spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects found are likely to re\u64258 ect real responses and not\
measurement error in CPS-based wages, a possibility that is raised by Autor, Manning and\
Smith(2016).30\
Second, since we \uc0\u64257 nd that essentially none of the wage spillovers accrue to workers who\
were not employed prior to the minimum wage increase, it is unlikely that our estimates\
of spillovers primarily re\uc0\u64258 ect an increase in the value of the outside options or reservation\
wages of non-employed workers (e.g. Flinn 2006). In contrast, the spillovers may re\uc0\u64258 ect\
relative-pay norms inside the \uc0\u64257 rm. This is consistent with \u64257 ndings in Dube, Giuliano and\
Leonard (2018), who study the wage adjustment using payroll data from a major retailer\
following the 1996-1997 federal minimum wage increase and \uc0\u64257 nd that worker separations\
respond to relative pay di\uc0\u64256 erences.\
3.3 Event-speci\uc0\u64257 c estimates\
So far, most of our evidence has come from averaging the e\uc0\u64256 ects across all 138 events. In this\
section, we estimate treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects for each of the events separately, and assess how these\
impacts vary when we consider minimum wage increases that are more binding.\
For this purpose, we create 138 data sets for each event h. The data sets include the\
state of event jand all clean control states for 8 year panel by event time. Clean control\
states are those that do not have any non-trivial state minimum wage increases in the 8 year\
panel around event h; other states are dropped from data set h.We calculate event-speci\uc0\u64257 c\
per-capita number of jobs in $1 wage bins relative to the minimum wage for each state-by-year.\
Then, the regression equation is,\
Yskth=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 3\u945 \u964 khI\u964 \
sth+\'b5skh+\uc0\u961 kth+Wskth+uskth, (4)\
wherekindicates the kthdollar bin relative to the minimum wage. Then, Yskthis the\
per-capita number of jobs in state stimet, andkthbin relative to the minimum wage in\
data seth. The calculation of event-speci\uc0\u64257 c change in excess jobs above ( Dah), change in\
30In theOnline Appendix B we implement our bunching approach using administrative data from Washing-\
ton. In that data we \uc0\u64257 nd similar spillover e\u64256 ects which suggest that the spillovers are not primarily caused\
by CPS-speci\uc0\u64257 c misreporting by survey respondents.\
22\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 25 of 116]\
missing jobs below ( Dbh), and employment change ( Deh=Dah+Dbh) are similar to the ones\
described in section 2.2.Wjstcontrols for other primary, federal, and small events whose\
5-year post-treatment periods take place within the data set h. It takes the value of 1 for all\
post-treatment periods of these events.31\
Figure5panel (a) shows the non-parametric bin-scattered relationship between the event\
by event estimates on missing jobs and the new minimum wage.32To calculate the former\
we use the ratio of the minimum wage to the median wage, also known as the Kaitzindex\
(e.g.,Lee 1999, Dube 2014, Autor, Manning and Smith 2016, Manning 2016). When the\
minimum wage is high relative to the median, it is expected to have a larger bite. Consistent\
with that expectation, we \uc0\u64257 nd that events hwith a higher minimum-to-median wage ratio\
had substantially more missing jobs \'97 the coe\uc0\u64259 cient on Kaitzhis sizable and statistically\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant at -0.133 (s.e. 0.034). At the same time, when we consider excess jobs, we \u64257 nd that\
the coe\uc0\u64259 cient on Kaitzhhas a very similar magnitude at 0.139 (s.e. 0.057). In other words,\
when the minimum wage is high relative to the median, the events have a bigger bite and a\
greater number of missing jobs below the new minimum, but also have a nearly equally sized\
number of excess jobs at or above the new minimum. As a consequence, the employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ect is virtually unchanged ( slope =0.006(s.e. 0.048) ) as we consider minimum wages that\
range between 37% and 59% of the median wage, as shown in the bottom panel of Figure 5.\
Overall, these \uc0\u64257 ndings suggest that that the level of the minimum wage increases in the U.S.\
that we study have yet to reach a point where the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects become sizable.\
31The online Appendix Figure C.1reports event-speci\uc0\u64257 c estimates for excess, missing jobs and overall\
employment e\uc0\u64256 ect, along with (Ferman and Pinto, forthcoming) con\u64257 dence intervals that are appropriate for\
a single treated unit and heteroscedasticty. While there is considerable heterogeneity in the bite of the policy,\
the distribution of employment estimates is consistent with the sharp null of zero e\uc0\u64256 ect everywhere: only\
5.3% of estimates are statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 5 percent level. In addition, the stacked event-by-event\
estimates can be also used to estimate the average e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage across events. In Online\
Appendix C we report estimates using that approach and show that estimates are very similar to our panel\
regression based event study. This shows that issues about negative weighting using staggered treatments\
(e.g.,Abraham and Sun, 2018) are unlikely to be driving our results.\
32We control for state-level unemployment rate at the time of the minimum wage increase, political\
orientation of the state, urban share of the state, and the decade of the minimum wage increase. However,\
the results are very similar if we leave out controls see Online Appendix Figure A.8.\
23\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 26 of 116]\
4 Employment Changes along the Wage Distribution\
in the Classic Two-Way Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ect Regression on log\
Minimum Wage\
In the previous section, we estimated the impact of minimum wages on the wage distribution\
using our event study speci\uc0\u64257 cation. We found that the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage was\
concentrated at the bottom of the wage distribution, and reassuringly we found no indication\
of considerable employment changes in the upper tail of the wage distribution (see Figure 2).\
The lack of responses $4 above the minimum wage or higher also implies that the e\uc0\u64256 ect of\
the minimum wage on aggregate employment is close to the estimated employment e\uc0\u64256 ect at\
the bottom of the wage distribution. Such stability of upper-tail employment is consistent\
with the observation that the share of workers a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage changes we\
study is too small to a\uc0\u64256 ect upper tail employment to a noticeable degree.\
In this section, we estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on employment throughout\
the wage distribution using alternative identi\uc0\u64257 cation strategies to illustrate the advantage\
of the distributional approach in diagnosing research designs. Recent empirical literature\
using the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cation with log minimum wage (TWFE-logMW),\
has found large aggregate disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ects in the U.S. context (see Meer and West\
2016). We decompose the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects estimate of log minimum wage on\
the state level employment-to-population rate. In Figure 6we divide the total wage-earning\
employment in the 1979-2016 Current Population Survey into in\uc0\u64258 ation-adjusted $1-wage\
bins by state and by year. Then, for each wage bin, we regress that wage bin\'92s employment\
per capita on the contemporaneous, 4 annual lags, and 2 annual leads of log minimum\
wage, along with state and time \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects.33This distributed lags speci\u64257 cation is similar\
to those used in numerous papers (e.g., Meer and West 2016, Allegretto et al. 2017).34\
The histogram bars show the average post-treatment e\uc0\u64256 ect divided by the sample average\
employment-to-population rate,35while the dashed purple line plots the running sum of the\
33In the TWFE-logMW model, the point estimates for the leads and lags show the impact relative to the\
employment in the 3rd year or earlier. Once we normalize the TWFE-logMW estimates to the \uc0\u64257 rst lead, we\
can report 3 leads and 4 lags, similarly to our benchmark estimates.\
34Meer and West (2016) present unweighted results on the total employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage.\
Here we present estimates weighted by the population size as it is more standard in the literature and also\
closer to our event study estimates. However, as we show in the Online Appendix Figure A.10, the unweighted\
estimates are similar.\
35We construct the cumulative response over event dates 0, 1, ..., 4 relative to event date -1 by successively\
summing the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for contemporaneous and lagged minimum wages. We then average the cumulative\
responses over dates 0,1, ... , 4. This average post-treatment e\uc0\u64256 ect is analogous to what we did in our\
event-based analysis in the previous sections.\
24\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 27 of 116]\
employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage up to the particular wage bin. The \u64257 nal purple bar\
represents the estimated e\uc0\u64256 ect on aggregate employment to population rate.\
Figure6panel (a) shows that, on average, minimum wage shocks are associated with\
large employment changes in the real dollar bins in the $6 to $9/hour range. There is a sharp\
decrease in employment in the $6/hour and $7/hour bins, likely representing a reduction\
in jobs paying below new minimum wages; and a sharp rise in the number of jobs in the\
$8/hour and $9/hour wage bins, likely representing jobs paying above the new minimum. At\
the same time, the \uc0\u64257 gure also shows consistent, negative employment e\u64256 ects of the minimum\
wage for levels far above the minimum wage: indeed, the aggregate negative employment\
elasticity (e.g. -0.137) accrues almost entirely in wage bins exceeding $15/hour.\
It strikes us as implausible that a minimum wage increase in the $8 to $9/hour range\
causally leads to losses of jobs mostly at or above the median wage, even though the minimum\
wage is binding far lower in the wage distribution. More plausibly, this suggests that the\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation is confounded by negative employment shocks to the upper part of the wage\
distribution (possibly much earlier than the actual treatment dates), and these shocks are not\
fully absorbed by the simple two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cations estimated using a long panel.\
For instance, as shown in Online Appendix F, the negative employment changes shown in\
Figure6arise only for the Card and Krueger low probability group, which should not be\
a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage. At the same time, the high and medium probability groups\
exhibit no negative disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ect.\
How is it possible that our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation that focuses on employment changes\
around the event window leads to such di\uc0\u64256 erent results compared to the TWFE-logMW\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation? The di\u64256 erences in the estimates suggest that the negative employment changes\
in upper part of the wage distribution in TWFE-logMW must come from outside of the\
event window. Indeed, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the employment losses are driven by the 1980s expansion\
and the 1990-91 recessions even though most of the minimum wage changes in our sample\
occurred after 2000. When we restrict the regression to the 1992-2016 period\'97the period\
where 86% (118/138) of all our events occurred\'97we indeed \uc0\u64257 nd very similar estimates across\
the two speci\uc0\u64257 cations. Moreover, even if we limit our sample to the 39 states with no state\
minimum wage increases until the late 1990s, the negative disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ects are driven\
entirely by the inclusion of a period (1980s) long before any cross-state variation in treatment\
occurred in these states (see Online Appendix Table F.3).\
We also \uc0\u64257 nd that the overall employment-to-population rate evolved very similarly between\
the early 1990s and 2016 in high minimum wage states (those that instituted a minimum\
exceeding the federal standard after the early 1990s) and low minimum wage states (where\
the federal standard was always binding). This is noteworthy because the period between the\
25\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 28 of 116]\
early 1990s and 2016 is when much of the cross-sectional variation in minimum wages emerged.\
Importantly, however, the employment-to-population rate had diverged between these two\
groups of states during the 1980s, at least a decade before most high minimum wage states\
started to raise their minimum wage. This creates a spurious correlation between employment\
changes in the 1980s and minimum wage changes in the early 2000s that confounds the\
TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation, which is sensitive to shocks occurring long before the event\
window. However, this does not a\uc0\u64256 ect our event study estimates, since these only consider\
employment changes within the event window. This also explains why we do not \uc0\u64257 nd any\
pre-existing trends in our event based analysis, while the TWFE-logMW in the full sample\
exhibits sizable and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant leads (see further details in Online Appendix F).36\
The above example illustrates that showing the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage throughout\
the wage distribution can provide additional falsi\uc0\u64257 cation tests and therefore be an useful\
tool for model selection. This type of model selection tool can be particularly helpful in the\
context of minimum wages, where the literature has often grappled with \uc0\u64257 guring out the\
\'93right\'94 empirical model.\
5 Discussion\
We propose a novel approach that infers the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage from\
the change in the frequency distribution of wages. The key advantage of this approach is\
that it allows us to assess the overall impact of the minimum wage on low-wage workers, who\
are the primary target of minimum wage policies. We use an event study analysis exploiting\
138 prominent minimum wage increases and provide a robust and comprehensive assessment\
of how minimum wages a\uc0\u64256 ect the frequency distribution of wages. Second, we calculate the\
number of missing jobs just below the minimum wage, the number of excess jobs at or slightly\
above the minimum wage, and also the job changes in the upper tail of the wage distribution.\
Our main estimates show that the number of excess jobs at and slightly above the minimum\
wage closely matches the number of missing jobs just below the minimum wage, while we\
\uc0\u64257 nd no evidence for employment changes at or more than $4 above the minimum wage. A\
36Why are the expansion in the 1980s and the downturn in the 1991-1992 recession related to future\
minimum wage changes? Because the expansion and downturn were more pronounced for states that would\
be more Democratic-leaning in the 2000s. One possibility is that the 1990-1991 recession was so severe in\
some states that it changed the political landscape and opened the door for candidates supporting minimum\
wages. However, another explanation is that the 1990-1991 recession just happened to be more pronounced\
for Democratic-leaning states\'97states that would also be more inclined to raise the minimum wage starting\
in the early 2000s following a long period of federal inaction. In Online Appendix F we show that this latter\
explanation \uc0\u64257 ts the data better. In particular, we show that the predictive power of the severity of recession\
on future minimum wage increases disappears once we control for the partisan voting index (PVI) in the\
2000s and instrument that variable with the PVI in 1988 (i.e., prior to the 1991-1992 recession).\
26\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 29 of 116]\
similar pattern obtains for low-skilled workers, suggesting labor-labor substitution is unlikely\
to be a factor in our setting. Moreover, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the level of the minimum wages that we\
study\'97which range between 37% and 59% of the median wage\'97have yet to reach a point\
where the job losses become sizable. However, the employment consequences of a minimum\
wage that surpass the ones studied here remain an open question. Furthermore, if minimum\
wage increases a\uc0\u64256 ect tradable sectors more, our \u64257 ndings suggest employment e\u64256 ects may be\
more pronounced.\
A key advantage of tracking job changes throughout the wage distribution is that we can\
transparently show the source of any disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ects. As a result, we can detect when\
an empirical speci\uc0\u64257 cation suggests an unrealistic impact on the shape of the wage distribution.\
More importantly, the relationship between minimum wages and the wage distribution can\
also be used to infer the structure of low-wage labor markets. While providing a uni\uc0\u64257 ed\
theoretical framework is beyond the scope of this paper, our empirical results on the wage\
distribution together with the estimates on labor-labor substitution across demographic\
groups and the heterogenous responses across sectors provide new empirical \uc0\u64257 ndings which\
can be used to test and distinguish various theories of the low-wage labor market.\
27\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 30 of 116]\
References\
Aaronson, Daniel and Eric French, \'93Product market evidence on the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of\
the minimum wage,\'94 Journal of Labor Economics, 25(1), (2007), 167\'96200.\
Abowd, John M, Francis Kramarz, Thomas Lemieux, and David N Margolis, \'93Minimum\
Wages and Youth Employment in France and the United States,\'94 in \'93Youth Employment\
and Joblessness in Advanced Countries,\'94 University of Chicago Press, (2000), pp. 427\'96472.\
Abraham, Sarah and Liyang Sun, \'93Estimating dynamic treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects in event studies\
with heterogeneous treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects,\'94 (2018).\
Allegretto, Sylvia, Arindrajit Dube, Michael Reich, and Ben Zipperer, \'93Credible research\
designs for minimum wage studies: A response to Neumark, Salas, and Wascher,\'94 ILR\
Review, 70(3), (2017), 559\'96592.\
Autor, David H., Alan Manning, and Christopher L. Smith, \'93The Contribution of the\
minimum wage to U.S. wage inequality over three decades: a reassessment,\'94 American\
Economic Journal: Applied Economics, 8(1), (2016), 58-99.\
Autor, David H, John J Donohue III, and Stewart J Schwab, \'93The costs of wrongful-discharge\
laws,\'94 The Review of Economics and Statistics ,88(2), (2006), 211\'96231.\
Best, Michael Carlos and Henrik Jacobsen Kleven, \'93Optimal Income Taxation with Career\
E\uc0\u64256 ects of Work E\u64256 ort,\'94 (2013). Working Paper.\
Bound, John, David A. Jaeger, and Regina M. Baker, \'93Problems with Instrumental Vari-\
ables Estimation When the Correlation Between the Instruments and the Endogeneous\
Explanatory Variable is Weak,\'94 Journal of the American Statistical Association ,90(430),\
(1995), 443\'96450.\
Brochu, Pierre, David Green, Thomas Lemieux, and James Townsend, \'93The Minimum Wage,\
Turnover, and the Shape of the Wage Distribution,\'94 (2017). Unpublished manuscript.\
Brown, KristineM,\'93Thelinkbetweenpensionsandretirementtiming: LessonsfromCalifornia\
teachers,\'94 Journal of Public Economics ,98(2013), 1\'9614.\
Card, David, \'93Using regional variation in wages to measure the e\uc0\u64256 ects of the federal minimum\
wage,\'94 ILR Review, 46(1), (1992), 22\'9637.\
28\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 31 of 116]\
and Alan B. Krueger, \'93Minimum Wages and Employment: A Case Study of the New\
Jersey and Pennsylvania Fast Food Industries,\'94 American Economic Review, 84(4), (1994),\
772-793.\
and,Myth and measurement: the new economics of the minimum wage , New Jersey:\
Princeton University Press, (1995).\
Cengiz, Doruk, \'93Seeing Beyond the Trees: Using machine learning to estimate the impact of\
minimum wages on a\uc0\u64256 ected individuals,\'94 (2018). Unpublished manuscript.\
Chetty, Raj, John N Friedman, and Emmanuel Saez, \'93Using Di\uc0\u64256 erences in Knowledge across\
Neighborhoods to Uncover the Impacts of the EITC on Earnings,\'94 The American Economic\
Review, 103(7), (2013), 2683\'962721.\
Clemens, Je\uc0\u64256 rey and Michael Wither, \'93The Minimum Wage and the Great Recession:\
Evidence of E\uc0\u64256 ects on the Employment and Income Trajectories of Low-Skilled Workers,\'94\
(2016). Unpublished manuscript.\
Comte, Fabienne and Claire Lacour, \'93Data-driven density estimation in the presence of\
additive noise with unknown distribution,\'94 Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series\
B (Statistical Methodology), 73(4), (2011), 601\'96627.\
Currie, Janet and Bruce C Fallick, \'93The Minimum Wage and the,\'94 The Journal of Human\
Resources, 31(2), (1996), 404\'96428.\
den Berg, Gerard J Van and Geert Ridder, \'93An empirical equilibrium search model of the\
labor market,\'94 Econometrica, (1998), 1183\'961221.\
Dickens, Richard, Stephen Machin, and Alan Manning, \'93Estimating the e\uc0\u64256 ect of minimum\
wages on employment from the distribution of wages: A critical view,\'94 Labour Economics,\
5(2), (1998), 109 - 134.\
DiNardo, John, Nicole M Fortin, and Thomas Lemieux, \'93Labor Market Institutions and the\
Distribution of Wages, 1973-1992: A Semiparametric Approach,\'94 Econometrica, 64(5),\
(1996), 1001\'961044.\
Dube, Arindrajit, \'93Designing thoughtful minimum wage policy at the state and local levels.\
The Hamilton Project,\'94 (2014).\
, Laura Giuliano, and Jonathan Leonard, \'93Fairness and frictions: the impact of unequal\
raises on quit behavior,\'94 American Economic Review, (2018).\
29\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 32 of 116]\
, T. William Lester, and Michael Reich, \'93Minimum wage e\uc0\u64256 ects across state borders:\
estimates using contiguous counties,\'94 The Review of Economics and Statistics, 92(4),\
November (2010), 945-964.\
Engbom, Niklas and Christian Moser, \'93Earnings inequality and the minimum wage: Evidence\
from Brazil,\'94 (2017). Unpublished manuscript.\
Fairris, David and Leon Fernandez Bujanda, \'93The dissipation of minimum wage gains for\
workers through labor-labor substitution: evidence from the Los Angeles living wage\
ordinance,\'94 Southern Economic Journal, (2008), 473\'96496.\
Ferman, Bruno and Cristine Pinto, \'93Inference in di\uc0\u64256 erences-in-di\u64256 erences with few treated\
groups and heteroskedasticity,\'94 The Review of Economics and Statistics , (forthcoming).\
Flinn, Christopher J, \'93Minimum wage e\uc0\u64256 ects on labor market outcomes under search,\
matching, and endogenous contact rates,\'94 Econometrica, 74(4), (2006), 1013\'961062.\
,The minimum wage and labor market outcomes , MIT press, (2011).\
Giuliano, Laura, \'93Minimum wage e\uc0\u64256 ects on employment, substitution, and the teenage\
labor supply: Evidence from personnel data,\'94 Journal of Labor Economics, 31(1), (2013),\
155\'96194.\
Harasztosi, P\'e9ter and Attila Lindner, \'93Who pays for the minimum wage?,\'94 Mimeo.(2016).\
Hirsch, Barry T and Edward J Schumacher, \'93Match bias in wage gap estimates due to\
earnings imputation,\'94 Journal of Labor Economics, 22(3), (2004), 689\'96722.\
Horton, John J, \'93Price \uc0\u64258 oors and employer preferences: Evidence from a minimum wage\
experiment,\'94 (2018).\
Katz, Lawrence F and Alan B Krueger, \'93The e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the fast-food\
industry,\'94 ILR Review, 46(1), (1992), 6\'9621.\
and Kevin M Murphy, \'93Changes in relative wages, 1963\'961987: supply and demand factors,\'94\
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 107(1), (1992), 35\'9678.\
Kleven, Henrik Jacobsen, \'93Bunching,\'94 Annual Review of Economics ,8(2016), 435\'96464.\
Lee, David S, \'93Wage inequality in the United States during the 1980s: Rising dispersion or\
falling minimum wage?,\'94 The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 114(3), (1999), 977\'961023.\
Lester, Richard A, The Economics of Labor, 2 ed., New York: Macmillan, (1964).\
30\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 33 of 116]\
Madrian, Brigitte C and Lars John Lefgren, \'93An approach to longitudinally matching Current\
Population Survey (CPS) respondents,\'94 Journal of Economic and Social Measurement ,26\
(1), (2000), 31\'9662.\
Manning, Alan, \'93The elusive employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage,\'94 (2016). Unpublished\
manuscript.\
Meer, Jonathan and Jeremy West, \'93E\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage on employment dynamics,\'94\
Journal of Human Resources, 51(2), (2016), 500-522.\
Meyer, Robert H and David A Wise, \'93The E\uc0\u64256 ects of the Minimum Wage on the Employment\
and Earnings of Youth,\'94 Journal of Labor Economics, 1(1), (1983), 66\'96100.\
Mian, AtifandAmirSu\uc0\u64257 , \'93Whatexplainsthe2007\'962009dropinemployment?,\'94 Econometrica,\
82(6), (2014), 2197\'962223.\
Neumark, David and William L. Wascher, Minimum wages, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,\
(2008).\
and William Wascher, \'93Employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of minimum and subminimum wages: panel\
data on state minimum wage laws,\'94 ILR Review, 46(1), (1992), 55\'9681.\
, JM Ian Salas, and William Wascher, \'93Revisiting the Minimum Wage-Employment Debate:\
Throwing Out the Baby with the Bathwater?,\'94 ILR Review, 67(3_suppl), (2014), 608\'96648.\
Saez, Emmanuel, \'93Do taxpayers bunch at kink points?,\'94 American Economic Journal:\
Economic Policy ,2(3), (2010), 180-212.\
Solon, Gary, Steven J Haider, and Je\uc0\u64256 rey M Wooldridge, \'93What are we weighting for?,\'94\
Journal of Human resources ,50(2), (2015), 301\'96316.\
Vaghul, Kavya and Ben Zipperer, \'93Historical state and sub-state minimum wage data,\'94\
Washington Center for Equitable Growth Working Paper , (2016).\
Wooldridge, Je\uc0\u64256 rey M, Econometric analysis of cross section and panel data, MIT press,\
(2010).\
Wursten, Jesse, \'93The Employment Elasticity of the Minimum Wage: Is It Just Politics after\
All?,\'94 (2017).\
31\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 34 of 116]\
Figure 1: An Illustration of the Bunching Approach\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!\
!" !\
"#!\
Number'of '\
Workers '\
!\
Wage '\
Missing!\
jobs!\
below !\
($%)!\
!\
Excess !\
jobs! !\
above !\
($&)!\
!\
!\
$'(=$&+$%!!\
!\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the frequency distribution of hourly wages. The\
red solid line shows the wage distribution before, and the blue solid line after the introduction of the minimum\
wage. Since compliance is less than perfect, some earners are uncovered and the post-event distribution starts\
before the minimum wage. For other workers, shown by the red shaded area between origin and MW ( Db),\
introduction of minimum wage may increase their wages, or those jobs may be destroyed. The former group\
creates the \'93excess jobs above\'94 ( Da), shown by the blue shaded area between MWandW, the upper limit\
for any e\uc0\u64256 ect of minimum wage on the earnings distribution. The overall change in employment due to the\
minimum wage ( De) is the sum of the two areas (Da+Db).\
32\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 35 of 116]\
Figure 2: Impact of Minimum Wages on the the Wage Distribution\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.021 (0.003)\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.018 (0.004)\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.028 (0.029)\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.068 (0.010)-.02 -.01 0 .01 .02Difference between actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins in $ relative to new MW\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the main results from our event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138\
state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. The blue bars show for each dollar bin (relative to the\
minimum wage) the estimated average employment changes in that bin during the 5-year post-treatment\
relative to the total employment in the state one year before the treatment. The error bars show the 95%\
con\uc0\u64257 dence interval using standard errors that are clustered at the state level shown using the error bar. The\
red line shows the running sum of employment changes up to the wage bin it corresponds to.\
33\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 36 of 116]\
Figure 3: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Missing and Excess Jobs Over Time\
-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04Excess and missing jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years Relative to the Minimum Wage Change\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the main results from our event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138\
state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of a minimum wage\
increase on the missing jobs below the new minimum wage (blue line) and on the excess jobs at and slightly\
above it (red line) over time. The blue line shows the evolution of the number of jobs (relative to the total\
employment 1 year before the treatment) between $4below the new minimum wage and the new minimum\
wage ( Db); and the red lines show the number of jobs between the new minimum wage and $5 above it ( Da).\
We also show the 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence interval based on standard errors that are clustered at the state level.\
34\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 37 of 116]\
Figure 4: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Wage Distribution by Pre-Treatment Employment\
Status: New Entrants and Incumbents\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.006 (0.001)\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.005 (0.001)\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.008 (0.034)\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.019 (0.013)-.012 -.008 -.004 0 .004 .008 .012Difference between actual and counterfactual new entrant employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins in $ relative to new MW\
(a) New entrants\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.014 (0.002)\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.013 (0.002)\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.009 (0.068)\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.095 (0.020)-.012 -.008 -.004 0 .004 .008 .012Difference between actual and counterfactual incumbent employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins in $ relative to new MW\
(a) Incumbents\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the main results for new entrants (panel a) and for incumbents (panel b) from our\
event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016.\
The blue bars show for each dollar bin the estimated change in the number of new entrants in that bin 1-year\
post-treatment relative to the total employment of the new entrants 1 year before the treatment. The green\
bars show the equivalent for incumbents. Incumbent workers were employed a year prior to the minimum\
wage increase, whereas new entrants were not. The error bars show the 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence interval calculated\
using standard errors that are clustered at the state level. The green and blue lines show the running sum of\
employment changes up to the wage bin they correspond to for new entrants and incumbents, respectively.\
The \uc0\u64257 gures highlight that the ripple e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage mainly comes from incumbent workers.\
35\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 38 of 116]\
Figure 5: Relationship between Excess Jobs, Missing Jobs, Employment Change and the\
Minimum-to-Median Wage Ratio Across Events\
Excess jobs, slope =  0.139 (0.057)\
Missing jobs, slope =  -0.133 (0.034)-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04Change in employment relative to pre-treatment total employment\
0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55\
Minimum-to-median wage ratio\
(a) Missing and excess jobs\
Emp. change, slope =  0.006 (0.048)-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04Change in employment relative to pre-treatment total employment\
0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55\
Minimum-to-median wage ratio\
(b) Employment change\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the binned scatter plots for missing jobs, excess jobs, and total employment changes\
by value of the minimum-to-median wage ratio (Kaitz index) for the 130 event-speci\uc0\u64257 c estimates. The 130\
events exclude 8 minimum wage raising events in the District of Columbia, since individual treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects\
are very noisily estimated for those events. The minimum-to-median wage ratio is the new minimum wage\
MWdivided by the median wage at the time of the minimum wage increase (Kaitz index). The bin-scatters\
and linear \uc0\u64257 ts control for decade dummies, state-speci\u64257 c unemployment rate at the time of the minimum\
wage increase, the urban share of the state\'92s population, and an indicator for being a Republican-leaning\
state. Estimates are weighted by thestate populations. The slope (and robust standard error in parentheses)\
is from the weighted linear \uc0\u64257 t of the outcome on the minimum-to-median wage ratio.\
36\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 39 of 116]\
Figure 6: Impact on Employment throughout the Wage Distribution in the Two-Way Fixed\
E\uc0\u64256 ects Model on log Minimum Wages\
Employment elas. = -0.089 (0.025)-.15 -.1 -.05 0 .05 .1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution in \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects (TWFE-\
logMW) speci\uc0\u64257 cation. We estimate two-way (state and year) \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects regressions on the contemporaneous\
log minimum wage, as well as on 4 annual lags and 2 annual leads. For each wage bin we run a separate\
regression, where the outcome is the number of jobs per capita in that state-wage bin. The cumulative\
response for each event date 0, 1,...,4 is formed by successively adding the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for the contemporaneous\
and lagged log minimum wages. The green histogram bars show the mean of these cumulative responses for\
event dates 0, 1,...,4, divided by the sample average employment-to-population rate \'97and represents the\
average elasticity of employment in each wage bin with respect to the minimum wage in the post-treatment\
period. The 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates are calculated using clustered standard\
errors at the state level. The dashed purple line plots the running sum of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the\
minimum wage up until the particular wage bin. The rightmost purple bar is the elasticity of the overall state\
employment-to-population with respect to minimum wage, obtained from regressions where the outcome\
variable is the state level employment-to-population rate. In the bottom left corner we also report the point\
estimate on this elasticity with standard errors that are clustered at the state level. Regressions are weighted\
by state population. The \uc0\u64257 gure highlights that large aggregate disemployment e\u64256 ects are often driven by\
shifts in employment at the upper tail of the wage distribution.\
37\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 40 of 116]\
Table 1: Impact of Minimum Wages on Employment and Wages\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.016*** -0.016*** -0.015***\
(0.004) (0.004) (0.004) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.021*** 0.018*** 0.020*** 0.016*** 0.014*** 0.015***\
(0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.003) (0.003)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.068*** 0.057*** 0.068*** 0.049*** 0.043*** 0.050*** 0.065***\
(0.010) (0.010) (0.012) (0.010) (0.010) (0.011) (0.010)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.028 0.000 0.022 -0.002 -0.019 -0.000 0.027\
(0.029) (0.023) (0.021) (0.021) (0.021) (0.023) (0.028)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.024 0.000 0.019 -0.001 -0.016 -0.000 0.023\
(0.025) (0.020) (0.018) (0.018) (0.018) (0.019) (0.024)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.411 0.006 0.326 -0.032 -0.449 -0.003 0.410\
(0.430) (0.402) (0.313) (0.439) (0.574) (0.455) (0.421)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086\
%DMW 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101\
Number of events 138 138 138 138 138 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 14,484\
Number of workers in the sample 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104\
Controls\
Bin-state\
FE Y Y Y Y Y Y\
Bin-period FE Y Y Y Y Y Y\
Bin-state linear trends Y Y Y Y\
Bin-state quadratic trends Y Y\
Bin-division-period FE Y Y Y\
State FE Y\
Year FE Y\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase based on the event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting\
138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979 and 2016. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment estimates on\
missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage, excess jobs at and up to $5 above it, employment and wages. Column (1)\
shows the benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation while Columns (2)-(6) explore robustness to bin-state time trends and bin-division-period \u64257 xed\
e\uc0\u64256 ects. Column (7) reports the simpler methodology estimates where we calculate changes in a\u64256 ected wage and employment by\
using state-by-quarter data, where the outcomes are the number of jobs or total wage bill under $15 per hour. Regressions are\
weighted by state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state. Signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels\
are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage ( Db), and\
excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment total employment. The third row, the percentage change\
in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is calculated using equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in\
employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The\
\uc0\u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the sixth row, employment\
elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the number of observations shows the number of quarter-bin\
cells used for estimation, while the number of workers refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
38\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 41 of 116]\
T\
able 2: Impact of Minimum Minimum Wages on Employment and Wages by Demographic Groups\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.065*** -0.032*** -0.114*** -0.023*** -0.028*** -0.094*** -0.020*** -0.004***\
(0.010) (0.007) (0.010) (0.005) (0.008) (0.010) (0.005) (0.001)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.075*** 0.038*** 0.127*** 0.026*** 0.028*** 0.100*** 0.021*** 0.004***\
(0.011) (0.006) (0.020) (0.004) (0.006) (0.012) (0.003) (0.001)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.080*** 0.076*** 0.083*** 0.072*** 0.044*** 0.073*** 0.051*** 0.060*\
(0.014) (0.014) (0.018) (0.011) (0.012) (0.011) (0.013) (0.032)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.038 0.043 0.030 0.025 -0.004 0.015 0.015 0.011\
(0.024) (0.030) (0.032) (0.027) (0.044) (0.018) (0.048) (0.055)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.097 0.061 0.125 0.025 -0.005 0.052 0.016 0.003\
(0.061) (0.042) (0.134) (0.027) (0.058) (0.062) (0.049) (0.014)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.475* 0.570 0.356 0.343 -0.086 0.206 0.304 0.184\
(0.268) (0.386) (0.317) (0.362) (1.005) (0.233) (0.904) (0.841)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.264 0.145 0.432 0.102 0.133 0.358 0.104 0.027\
%DMW 0.103 0.103 0.102 0.101 0.100 0.103 0.103 0.103\
Number of events 138 138 138 138 138 138 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 846,729 847,314 847,314 847,314\
Number of workers in the sample 660,771 2,248,711 287,484 2,277,624 781,003 469,226 1,830,393 2,349,485\
SampleLess than\
high schoolHigh school\
or lessTeen WomenBlack or\
HispanicHigh\
probabilityMedium\
probabilityLow\
probability\
Notes.The table reports e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase by demographic groups based on the event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138 state-level\
minimum wage changes between 1979 and 2016. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment estimates on missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage,\
excess jobs at and up to $5 above it, employment and wages for individuals without a high school degree (Column 1), for individuals with high school degree or less\
schooling (Column 2), for teens (Column 3), for women (Column 4), for black or Hispanic workers (Column 5). Columns (6)-(8) report the results for groups of workers\
with di\uc0\u64256 erential probability of being exposed to the minimum wage changes. We use the Card and Krueger (1995) demographic predictors to estimate the probability of\
being exposed (see the text for details). Column 6 shows the results for the workers who have a high probability of being exposed to the minimum wage increase,\
Column (7) for the middle probability group, and Column (8) for the low probability group. All speci\uc0\u64257 cations include wage bin-by-state and wage bin-by period \u64257 xed\
e\uc0\u64256 ects. Regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated population of the demographic groups. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state;\
signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.5, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage ( Db), and excess jobs above the new minimum\
wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment total employment. The third row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is calculated using\
equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment by jobs below the new\
minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The \u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the sixth row, employment elasticity\
with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the number of observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells used for estimation, while the number of\
workers refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
39\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 42 of 116]\
T\
able 3: Impact of Minimum Minimum Wages on Employment and Wages by Sectors (1992-2016)\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.019*** -0.016* -0.066*** -0.003 -0.011*** -0.101*** -0.033*** -0.017**\
(0.004) (0.008) (0.007) (0.002) (0.003) (0.015) (0.003) (0.008)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.020*** 0.011 0.072*** 0.005 0.011*** 0.101*** 0.041*** 0.011\
(0.003) (0.008) (0.011) (0.006) (0.002) (0.015) (0.010) (0.009)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.058*** 0.058 0.056*** 0.097 0.056*** 0.049*** 0.060*** 0.073\
(0.011) (0.073) (0.014) (0.086) (0.013) (0.012) (0.021) (0.078)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.008 -0.111 0.022 0.051 0.009 -0.001 0.062 -0.101\
(0.031) (0.136) (0.037) (0.163) (0.044) (0.026) (0.080) (0.145)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.007 -0.056 0.060 0.019 0.005 -0.002 0.086 -0.052\
(0.027) (0.069) (0.103) (0.059) (0.026) (0.117) (0.111) (0.074)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.140 -1.910 0.387 0.530 0.166 -0.011 1.040 -1.385\
(0.523) (3.922) (0.597) (1.311) (0.763) (0.542) (1.058) (2.956)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.087 0.050 0.270 0.036 0.057 0.434 0.136 0.050\
%DMW 0.098 0.098 0.098 0.098 0.098 0.098 0.098 0.098\
Number of events 118 118 118 118 118 118 118 118\
Number of observations 554,931 554,931 554,931 554,931 554,931 554,931 554,931 554,931\
Number of workers in the sample 2,652,792 358,086 384,498 274,812 1,504,643 156,634 315,397 349,749\
Sector: Overall Tradable Nontradable Construction Other Restaurants Retail Manufacturing\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase by industries based on the event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 118 state-level\
minimum wage changes between 1992 and 2016. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment estimates on missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum\
wage, excess jobs at and up to $5 above it, employment and wages for all sectors (Column 1), tradable sectors (Column 2), non-tradable sectors (Column 3),\
construction (Column 4), other sectors (Column 5), restaurants (Column 6), retail (Column 7), and manufacturing industries (Column 8). Our classi\uc0\u64257 cation\
of tradable, non-tradable, construction and other sectors follows Mian and Su\uc0\u64257  (2014) (see Online Appendix D for the details). Regressions are weighted by\
state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description. The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage ( Db), and excess jobs above the new\
minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment total employment. The third row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is\
calculated using equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment\
by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The \u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the\
sixth row, employment elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the number of observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells\
used for estimation, while the number of workers refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
40\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 43 of 116]\
Table 4: The Size of the Wage Spillovers\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wage Spillover share of wage increase\
%Dw %DwNo spillover%Dw\'96%DwNo spillover\
%Dw\
Overall 0.068*** 0.041*** 0.397***\
(0.010) (0.009) (0.119)\
Less than high school 0.077*** 0.048*** 0.370***\
(0.013) (0.009) (0.078)\
Teen 0.081*** 0.053*** 0.347***\
(0.015) (0.007) (0.059)\
High school or less 0.073*** 0.043*** 0.402***\
(0.013) (0.011) (0.100)\
Women 0.070*** 0.045*** 0.359***\
(0.011) (0.010) (0.120)\
Black or Hispanic 0.045*** 0.037*** 0.179\
(0.012) (0.010) (0.265)\
Tradable 0.058 0.065** -0.114\
(0.073) (0.028) (1.157)\
Non-tradable 0.056*** 0.043*** 0.237\
(0.014) (0.006) (0.191)\
Incumbent 0.095*** 0.055*** 0.422**\
(0.020) (0.011) (0.181)\
New entrant 0.019 0.023*** -0.178\
(0.013) (0.006) (0.748)\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase on wages based on the event\
study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138 state-level minimum wage changes between\
1979 and 2016. The table reports the percentage change in a\uc0\u64256 ected wages with (Column\
1) and without (Column 2) taking spillovers into account for all workers, workers without\
a high school degree, teens, individuals with high school or less schooling, women, black or\
Hispanic workers, in tradable industries, in non-tradable industries, those who were employed\
1 year before the minimum wage increase (incumbents); and those who did not have a job 1\
year before (new-entrants). The \uc0\u64257 rst column is the estimated change in the a\u64256 ected wages\
calculated according to the equation 2in Section 2.2, and the second column assumes no\
spillovers (see equation 3in Section 3.2). In the last column, the spill-over share of the wage\
e\uc0\u64256 ect is calculated by subtracting 1 from the ratio of the estimates in the second to the \u64257 rst\
column. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are *\
0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
41\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 44 of 116]\
Online Appendix A\
Additional Figures and Tables\
FigureA.1shows all minimum wage increases between 1979 and 2016. We use the time series\
of state-level minimum wage changes from Vaghul and Zipperer (2016). Blue circles show the\
minimum wage events that are used in the event study analysis. The light orange triangles\
represent small minimum wage changes that we do not analyze (but control for). For these\
changes, the minimum wage increased either by less than $0.25 (the size of our wage bins) or\
by less than 2 percent of the workforce earned between the new and the old minimum wage.\
Finally, the green circles indicate federal changes, which we also exclude from our primary\
sample of treatments because the change in missing number of jobs, Db, is identi\uc0\u64257 ed only\
from time-series variation for these events as there are no \'93control states\'94 with wage \uc0\u64258 oors\
lower than the new minimum wage. The \uc0\u64257 gure highlights that around 70% (99/138) of the\
minimum wage changes in our sample occurred after 2000.\
Some wages in the CPS are imputed. In most of our analysis we use only non-imputed\
wages. This might be of concern if the imputation rate changes in response to the minimum\
wage, or is correlated with minimum wage changes for some other reason. Figure A.2shows\
event study estimates where the outcome is the state-level imputation rate. The \uc0\u64257 gure shows\
that minimum wage events studied here have no apparent e\uc0\u64256 ect on the imputation rate.\
Our de\uc0\u64257 nition of "overall employment" does not include self-employed workers, who are\
not covered by the minimum wage. (Note that QCEW does not include self-employed either).\
The exclusion of self-employed can be problematic if minimum wages shift employees to\
self-employment. Figure A.3(\'93Impact of Minimum Wages on the Self- Employment\'94) shows\
that the self-employment rate (i.e., self employed workers divided by wage and salary plus\
self-employed workers) is not a\uc0\u64256 ected by the minimum wage. This con\u64257 rms that there is not\
any shift to self-employment induced by the minimum wage.\
FigureA.4plots the evolution of wage and total employment change for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers\
over annualized event time using our baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation with wage-bin-period and wage-\
bin-state \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. The upper graph in Figure A.4illustrates the clear, statistically\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant rise in the average wage of a\u64256 ected workers at date zero, which persists over the\
\uc0\u64257 ve year post-intervention period. In contrast, the lower panel in Figure A.4shows that there\
is no corresponding change in employment over the \uc0\u64257 ve years following treatment. Moreover,\
employment changes were similarly small during the three years prior to treatment.\
FigureA.5shows the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution when we take\
into account that sometimes minimum wage increases are phased in over multiple events. In\
65% of the cases we study, a primary minimum wage increase is followed by a secondary one\
within 5 years, on average at $0.56 above the minimum for the primary event. In contrast\
to the main results of the paper, where we show the partial e\uc0\u64256 ect of each event, here we\
show the cumulative e\uc0\u64256 ect of both primary and secondary events by taking into account\
the incidence and size of secondary increases averaged across our sample of events. The\
cumulative e\uc0\u64256 ect of primary and secondary events on missing jobs is 2.5%, which is larger\
than the partial e\uc0\u64256 ect of the primary events, which is 1.8% (see Figure 2). Therefore, the\
presence of multiple events can explain some of the di\uc0\u64256 erence between the jobs below the\
new minimum wage\'97which is around 8.6%\'97and the missing jobs below the new minimum\
42\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 45 of 116]\
wage\'97which is around 1.8%\'97 in the main analysis.\
FigureA.6compares our main estimates of own wage elasticity of employment to the\
estimates in the previous literature. The estimates from the previous literature are obtained\
fromHarasztosi and Lindner (2016), using studies that reported both employment and wage\
estimates. We report the benchmark estimates from Column 1 in Table 1and the Card\
and Krueger high probability groups from Column 6 in Table 2. The dashed line shows the\
lower bound estimates of our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation. The Figure A.6points out that our\
benchmark estimates can rule out 7 out of 11 negative estimates in the literature. When we\
additionally focus on the Card and Krueger high-probability group, our estimates rule out 8\
of those 11 negative estimates.\
Panel (a) in Figure A.7plots the relationship between missing jobs below (multiplied by\
-1) and the excess jobs above the new minimum wage for the various subgroups in Table 2.\
While there is large variation in the missing jobs across various demographic groups, they\
are matched closely by excess jobs above the new minimum wage. The dashed line is the\
45-degree line and depicts the locus of points where the missing and excess jobs are equal\
in magnitude ( Da=\uc0\u8722 Db). In all cases, except for the black or Hispanic group, the excess\
jobs are larger than the missing jobs indicating a positive albeit statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant\
employment e\uc0\u64256 ect. For black or Hispanic individuals, the di\u64256 erence between excess and\
missing jobs is negligible.\
Panel (b) in Figure A.7plots the relationship between missing jobs below (multiplied by -1)\
and the excess jobs above the new minimum wage for fully partitioned education-age groups.\
We use 4 education categories and 6 age categories, yielding a total of 23 education-by-age\
groups.37For each of these 23 groups, we separately estimate a regression using our baseline\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation, and calculate changes in missing ( Dbg) and excess jobs ( Dag) for each of them.\
Each grey circle represents one age-education group, while the blue squares show the binned\
scatterplot. We also report the linear \uc0\u64257 t (red line) and the 45-degree (dashed) line that depicts\
the locus of points where the missing and excess jobs are equal in magnitude ( Da=\uc0\u8722 Db).\
The \uc0\u64257 gure can be used to assess labor-labor substitution across various demographic groups.\
If there is no employment e\uc0\u64256 ect in any of the groups, the slope coe\u64259 cient \'b51from regressing\
Dag=\'b50+\'b51\'d7(\uc0\u8722 Dbg)should be close to one; under this scenario, di\u64256 erences across groups\
in the number of excess jobs at or above the minimum wage exactly mirrors the di\uc0\u64256 erence\
in the number of missing jobs below. In contrast, if employment declines are more severe\
for lower skilled groups\'97for whom the bite (- Db) is expected to be bigger\'97then we should\
expect the slope to be less than one, especially for larger values of \uc0\u8722 Db. As shown in in Figure\
A.7, the slope of the \uc0\u64257 tted line is very close to one, with \'88\'b51= 1.070 (s.e.0.075). The binned\
scatter plot shows that there is little indication of a more negative slope at higher values\
of\uc0\u8722 Db. While some speci\u64257 c groups (e.g., individuals with less than high school education\
between 30 and 40 years of age) are above the 45 degree line, others (e.g., individuals with\
less than high school education between 40 and 50 years of age) are below the line. Overall,\
these \uc0\u64257 ndings provide little evidence of heterogeneity in the employment e\u64256 ect by skill level.\
FigureA.8shows the event-by-event relationship between missing jobs, excess jobs,\
37Education categories are less than high school, high school graduate, some college and college graduate.\
Age categories are teens, [20, 30), [30, 40), [40, 50), [50, 60), and 60 and above. We exclude teens with college\
degrees from the sample.\
43\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 46 of 116]\
employment change and the minimum to median wage (Kaitz index). We plot the bin-\
scattered non-parametric relationship without controlling for other characteristics of the\
event. The \uc0\u64257 gure is very similar to our benchmark estimates in Figure 5where we do control\
for observable characteristics including urban share, decade dummies and whether the state\
leans Republican.\
FigureA.9shows the event-by-event relationship between the change in employment and\
the minimum to median wage ratio (the Kaitz index). Here we show the raw (and not binned)\
scatter plots, where each dot represents one of the 138 events studied in the event study. The\
red circles show the 8 minimum wage changes in Washington DC, while the green circles\
show the remaining 130 events. The \uc0\u64257 gure highlights that events from Washington DC are\
often outliers, which is not surprising given that the Washington DC sample sizes are very\
small in the CPS. To alleviate the in\uc0\u64258 uence of outliers when comparing across events, we\
decided to drop Washington DC from our event-by-event analysis in Figure 5and in Figure\
A.8. However we keep those events in the rest of the paper where we report the event study\
estimates.\
FigureA.10shows the impact of minimum wages on the wage distribution in weighted\
andunweighted TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cations. Panel (a) reports Figure 6from the main text\
estimated using (level) \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. Panel (b) reports the unweighted version of Figure 6.\
The use of weights has a modest impact on the results.\
Obtaining a meaningful \'93\uc0\u64257 rst stage\'94 e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on average wages is\
essential for interpreting the estimated employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage. Table\
A.1compares the t-statistics obtained from estimates of wage elasticities using the preferred\
bunching estimator, which infers the wage changes from the bin by bin estimates from\
equation 1, and the estimator that runs equation 1at the state-level and uses log of average\
state level wage as the outcome variable. Both sets of estimates use the paper\'92s same\
underlying 138 events for the minimum wage increases. In nearly every demographic group,\
the bunching estimator\'92s wage e\uc0\u64256 ects are much more precisely estimated and the aggregated\
estimator\'92s wage e\uc0\u64256 ects are often not distinguishable from zero at conventional levels of\
statistical signi\uc0\u64257 cance. For all workers, the t-statistic for the bunching estimator is 12 times\
as large as the t-statistic from the aggregated estimator. Only in the smaller subgroup of\
teens does the aggregated estimator\'92s precision modestly outperform that of the bunching\
estimator. In almost all cases, the bunching estimator is able to estimate a wage e\uc0\u64256 ect\
statistically di\uc0\u64256 erent from zero at the 1 percent level of signi\u64257 cance. The only exception is\
for the low probability CK group, in which the bunching estimator estimates a positive wage\
e\uc0\u64256 ect statistically distinguishable from zero at the 5 percent level, and where the aggregated\
estimator obtains a negative and highly imprecise wage e\uc0\u64256 ect estimate.\
The bunching method infers job losses from employment changes around the minimum\
wage. This has a potential advantage even in the absence of large upper tail employment\
changes: \uc0\u64257 ltering out random shocks to jobs in the upper part of the wage distribution can\
improve precision of the estimates. Table A.2compares the point estimates and standard\
errors of the bunching estimator and an estimator that uses equation 1at the state-level, and\
speci\uc0\u64257 ed group\'92s aggregate employment as the outcome variable for calculating the elasticity\
of employment with respect to the minimum wage. For almost all the groups, the bunching\
estimator is at least as precise as the aggregate estimator, sometimes substantially more so in\
the case of smaller demographic groups. Row 1 shows that, for all workers, the point estimates\
44\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 47 of 116]\
of both approaches are rather similar when estimating the policy\'92s employment elasticity,\
with the standard error of the bunching approach modestly smaller, at 88% of the aggregate\
estimator. In the cases of workers with lower education, the bunching estimator\'92s employment\
elasticity standard errors are between 65% and 76% of those from the aggregate estimator.\
The last three rows of the table examine the the high probability, middle, and low probability\
groups described in section 2.2. Only for the middle group does the aggregate estimator\
largely outperform the bunching estimator\'92s precision. (As we discuss in the paragraph\
above, however, for this middle group there is no signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ect detectable using the\
aggregate approach, which makes the precision meaningless.)\
As a further check on the correlation between minimum wages and the imputation rate of\
wages, Table A.3shows the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the imputation rate using various\
alternative speci\uc0\u64257 cations. All speci\u64257 cations con\u64257 rm that minimum wages have no impact on\
the imputation rate.\
TableA.4explores the robustness of the benchmark analysis shown in Column 1 of Table\
1. In column (1) of Table A.4, we focus on the e\uc0\u64256 ect for events that take place in the 7 states\
without a tip credit, where the same minimum wage is applied to tipped and non-tipped\
employees.38Even if the share of the workforce earning below the new minimum wage (9.9%)\
in these states are similar to those in the primary sample, the bite of the policy is larger in the\
no-tip-credit states: missing jobs are 2.7% of pre-treatment employment in the no-tip-credit\
sample as compared to 1.8% in the full sample. However, the larger number of missing jobs\
is almost exactly compensated by an excess number of jobs above the minimum wage, which\
amount to 2.6% of pre-treatment employment. The resulting employment elasticity with\
respect to own wage is \uc0\u8722 0.139(s.e. 0.530).\
In the second column of Table A.4, we expand the event de\uc0\u64257 nition to include (nontrivial)\
federal minimum wage increases, which produces a total of 369 events. Here we \uc0\u64257 nd the\
missing jobs ( Db) to be slightly larger in magnitude at 2.0% of pre-treatment employment.\
The wage e\uc0\u64256 ect for a\u64256 ected workers is 6.7% and statistically signi\u64257 cant. The employment\
elasticities with respect to the minimum wage and own wage are both close to zero at -0.009\
(s.e. 0.019) and -0.157 (s.e. 0.32), respectively. For federal increases, the change in the\
number of missing jobs below, Db, is identi\uc0\u64257 ed only using time series variation, since there\
are no covered workers earning below the new minimum in control states. However, Da+Db\
is identi\uc0\u64257 ed using cross-state variation, since at least for the 1996-1997 increase and especially\
for the 2007-2009 increase there are many control states with covered employment $4 above\
the new federal minimum wage. Overall, we \uc0\u64257 nd it reassuring that the key \u64257 nding of a small\
employment elasticity remains even when we consider federal increases.\
In column (3) of Table A.4, we consider the number of hours employed and estimate\
the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on full-time equivalent (FTE) workers. These estimates are\
not very di\uc0\u64256 erent from Table 1. The actual number of FTE jobs below the minimum wage\
(relative to the pre-treatment employment) is lower ( b\uc0\u8722 1=6.7% as opposed to 8.6% in Table\
1), indicating that low-wage workers work fewer hours. Consistent with this, missing jobs\
estimate is also smaller in magnitude when we use an FTE measure (-1.3% instead of -1.8%).\
The average wage change for a\uc0\u64256 ected workers accounting for hours is 7.3% (s.e 1.2%), while\
the employment change is 4.4% (s.e. 3.3%). After accounting for hours, the employment\
38These states are Alaska, California, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, Oregon and Washington.\
45\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 48 of 116]\
elasticity with respect to the minimum wage and the own wage are 0.029 (s.e. 0.022) and\
0.601 (s.e. 442), respectively. The analogous estimates for headcount employment in Table 1\
were 0.024 (s.e. 0.025) and 0.411 (s.e. 0.43).\
In column (4) of Table A.4, we restrict the sample to hourly workers; we expect these\
workers to report their hourly wage information more accurately than our calculation of\
hourly earnings (as weekly earnings divided by usual hours) for salaried workers. Although\
the actual number of workers below the new minimum wage is close to our benchmark sample\
(10.4% vs. 8.6% in Table 1) the missing jobs estimate almost doubles (3.3.% vs. 1.8% in\
Table1). As a result, the wage e\uc0\u64256 ects are more pronounced for this subset of workers than\
the overall sample (9.4% versus 6.8% in Table 1), which is consistent with measurement\
error in wages being smaller for those who directly report their hourly wages. Nevertheless,\
the employment elasticities with respect to the minimum wage (0.029, s.e. 0.035) and with\
respect to the own wage (0.306 s.e. 0.392) are very similar to our benchmark estimates.\
In column (5), we exclude workers in tipped occupations, as de\uc0\u64257 ned by Autor, Manning\
and Smith (2016). Tipped workers can legally work for sub-minimum wages in most states,\
and hence may report hourly wages below the minimum wage (as tips are not captured in\
the reported hourly wage). As we explained in Section 2.3, such imperfect coverage creates a\
discrepancy between the actual level ( \'afb\uc0\u8722 1) and the change ( Db) in the number of workers\
below the new minimum wage; however, it does not create a bias in the bunching estimate\
for the change in employment ( Da+Db). Excluding tipped workers reduces the average bite,\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1= 6.1%, while the estimate of missing jobs of -1.6% is close to our benchmark estimate\
of -1.8% in Table 1. Consequently, estimated wage e\uc0\u64256 ects are larger by around 20% (8.2%\
versus 6.8% in Table 1). However, excluding tipping workers has a negligible impact on the\
employment estimates: the own-wage employment elasticity is 0.337 as opposed to 0.41 in\
Table1.\
In column (6), we present estimates using the raw CPS data instead of the QCEW\
benchmarked CPS. The missing jobs estimate of -1.8% is essentially the same as the baseline\
estimate. The wage (7.7%) and employment (4.6%) estimates as well as the employment\
elasticities with respect to the minimum wage (0.039) and own wage (0.590) are slightly more\
positive. The bene\uc0\u64257 t of using the QCEW benchmarked CPS is the increased precision of\
the estimates. Without benchmarking, the standard errors for the minimum wage and the\
own-wage elasticities are 44% and 25% larger than those in column (1) of Table 1.\
In column (7) we provide estimates without using population weights. These results\
are virtually identical to our benchmark estimates (Column (1) of Table 1). For instance,\
the employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is 0.401 (s.e. 0.418), which\
is virtually identical to the weighted estimate of 0.411 (s.e. 0.430). The similarity of the\
weighted and unweighted estimates is reassuring, since a substantial di\uc0\u64256 erence between the\
two could re\uc0\u64258 ect potential misspeci\u64257 cation (Solon, Haider and Wooldridge 2015).\
In column (8), we limit the sample to 1993-2016. The similarity of the employment\
elasticity with respect to the minimum wage estimates obtained from post-1992 sample and\
from the baseline sample (0.006 (0.026) instead of 0.024 (0.025)) is used below in Online\
Appendix F to explain di\uc0\u64256 erences between the \u64257 ndings of the event-based approach and the\
TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation.\
Our data is in 25-cent bins and the baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation treatment indicators are in\
1-dollar increments. To allay any concerns, in column (9), we also check the robustness of\
46\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 49 of 116]\
our results where the treatment indicators are also in 25 cent increments. In other words,\
there are 4 times as many regression coe\uc0\u64259 cients for this speci\u64257 cation as in our benchmark\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation. Obviously, the speci\u64257 c $0.25 wage bins estimates are noisier than the $1 bin\
estimates. However, once we sum up these more nosily estimated coe\uc0\u64259 cients, we obtain\
estimates that are highly similar to our baseline results (0.023 (0.026) and 0.401 (0.447)\
instead of 0.024 (0.025) and 0.411 (0.430), respectively).\
TableA.5explores the sensitivity of the results using alternative thresholds, W, for\
calculating the excess jobs at and above the minimum wage. In our baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation,\
we calculate the excess jobs by adding up the impact in the interval between MWand\
W=MW +$4. In the table we report results using values for W\uc0\u8722 MWbetween $2 and $6.\
The table shows that the excess jobs estimate increases when the threshold is increased from\
$2 (column 2) to $3 (column 3), but beyond that the estimates remain stable. Therefore, our\
results are not sensitive to the particular value of Wonce we take into account the presence\
of spillovers up to $3 above the minimum wage.\
In Table A.6, we consider the robustness of our results to using alternative event windows.\
Column 1 repeats our baseline results using a window between event dates -3 and 4 (i.e., the\
3rd year before the minimum wage increase and 4th year after). Columns 2 and 4 show that\
reducing the post-treatment window end-date to 2, or extending it to 6 has little impact\
on the wage or employment estimates. Similarly, columns 4 and 5 show that extending\
the pre-treatment start date to -5 or reducing it to -1 also has very limited impact on the\
estimates. For example, across all 5 columns, the employment elasticity with respect to the\
minimum wage varies between 0.008 and 0.025; the associated standard errors vary between\
0.021 and 0.027. Overall, these estimates show that our \uc0\u64257 ndings are not driven by our speci\u64257 c\
choice of the event window.\
TableA.7reports estimated wage and employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the aggregate event-based\
(panel A), and the bunching (panel B) estimators for the Card and Krueger predicted\
probabilitygroups. Whiletheaggregateevent-basedapproachconsiderswageandemployment\
of the full group, the bunching approach looks locally at wage and employment changes of\
a\uc0\u64256 ected workers near the minimum wage. Note that the percentage change in overall average\
wage will be considerably smaller than the percentage change in wage at the bottom of the\
distribution. Take the case where both employment fell by 5% and wages rose by 5% for\
a\uc0\u64256 ected workers, but a\u64256 ected workers were only half of total employment. Then aggregate\
employment would fall by 2.5%, but average wage will rise by even less, since una\uc0\u64256 ected\
workers have higher wages than a\uc0\u64256 ected workers. As a result the common way of calculating\
employment elasticity\'96that takes the ratio of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects and wage e\u64256 ect\'96will\
be biased using the aggregate approach; and the smaller the share of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers in\
the group (so that the average wage of the group is much larger than the wage of a\uc0\u64256 ected\
workers), the bigger is the bias.\
Column1ofTable A.7showstheestimatesforthehighprobabilitygroup. Bothapproaches\
estimate a sizable and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ects with no indication of disemployment.\
The wage and employment elasticities with respect to the minimum wage are 0.187 (s.e.\
0.062) and 0.081 (s.e. 0.084) in panel A, respectively, using the aggregate approach; these are\
consistent with the \uc0\u64257 ndings in panel B using the bunching estimator. However, the former\
approach fails to detect a statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ect of the policy for the middle and\
the low probability groups in columns 2 and 3. The wage elasticity estimates in columns\
47\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 50 of 116]\
2 and 3 are 0.065 (s.e. 0.057) and -0.005 (s.e. 0.038). This limits the ability of using the\
CK probability group approach by itself to examine the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum\
wage. Since the \'93\uc0\u64257 rst stage\'94 wage e\u64256 ect is missing for the latter two groups, it is di\u64259 cult to\
assess the size of the estimated employment e\uc0\u64256 ects (0.057 (s.e. 0.047) and 0.001 (s.e. 0.023)\
for the middle and low probability groups, respectively). On the other hand, the bunching\
estimator captures a sizable and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant wage e\u64256 ect for all of the groups\
(0.051 (s.e. 0.013) and 0.060 (s.e. 0.032) for the middle, and low probability groups). By\
examining changes in the frequency distribution for wages around the minimum wage, the\
bunching estimator enables us to establish a causal relationship between the policy and the\
employment e\uc0\u64256 ects for each of the groups.\
TableA.8shows the impact of the minimum wage for incumbents and for new entrants to\
the labor force. Since CPS interviews individuals twice (one year apart), we can only assess\
a short term impact of the minimum wage for these two subgroups. However, columns (1)\
and (2) highlight that the short term and the long term impact of the minimum wage is\
very similar for the overall sample. By matching the CPS over time, we lose observations\
either because matching is not possible, or because there are \'93bad\'94 matches (see Online\
Appendix D for details). Finally, we can only observe past employment status in the second\
period, so we can only use half of the observations in the matched sample. This shrinks\
our primary sample size from 4,694,104 to 1,505,192. The results from this matched sample\
is shown in column (3). The missing jobs are exactly the same as in the baseline (column\
1), however, the excess jobs are slightly lower (1.8% in column 3 vs. 2.1% in baseline). As\
a result, the change in a\uc0\u64256 ected jobs is slightly smaller than in the baseline estimate, but\
it is still statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant and positive in sign. Columns (4) and (5) decompose\
these changes by incumbents and new entrants. Two thirds of the missing jobs come from\
incumbents, while one third from new entrants. However, the change in missing jobs matches\
the change in excess jobs in both groups, so the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects are very similar (0.9%\
for incumbents and 0.8% for new entrants). At the same time, the wage e\uc0\u64256 ects are di\u64256 erent,\
since new entrants do not experience any spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects (see Figure 4).\
TableA.9shows estimates for the event-by-event analysis presented in Figure 5using\
alternative speci\uc0\u64257 cations. The estimated relationship between the Kaitz index on the jobs\
below, on the missing jobs, on the excess jobs, and on the employment change are similar\
across various speci\uc0\u64257 cations, which underlines the robustness of the results presented in\
Figure5.\
TableA.10shows the estimated employment elasticities using our event-based approach,\
as well as distributed lag speci\uc0\u64257 cations in log minimum wage (with 4 years of lags, contem-\
poraneous, and 3 years of leads) estimated in both TWFE-logMW and in \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erences\
(FD) speci\uc0\u64257 cations (see the details in Online Appendix F). We report employment estimates\
on aggregate employment in (columns 1, 2 and 5) and employment under $15 (columns 3,\
4 and 6) in Panel A. There is a wide range of estimates for aggregate employment, as we\
pointed out in Figure 6. When we exclude employment variation in the upper tail and focus\
on employment in jobs under $15, the range of estimates narrows considerably. For example,\
for the weighted estimates, the employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage\
is -0.020 (s.e. 0.028) in the \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cation, -0.005 (s.e. 0.019) in \u64257 rst di\u64256 erence\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation, and 0.027 (s.e. 0.022) in the event-based speci\u64257 cation. These estimates cannot\
be distinguished statistically from each other, or from zero. This highlights that variability\
48\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 51 of 116]\
in the estimates is mainly driven by variation in employment above $15, which is unlikely to\
re\uc0\u64258 ect the causal e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage. Column 6 estimates event-based regressions of\
the minimum wage on jobs below $15. We refer to this speci\uc0\u64257 cation as the \'93simpler method\'94\
in Section 2.3and we report the estimates in Column 7 of Table 1. (The slight di\uc0\u64256 erence\
between Column 6 in Table A.10and Column 7 in Table 1is that the former is based on\
annual data while the latter is based on quarterly data.) Column 7 shows our baseline\
estimates where we estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on job counts in each wage\
bin, calculate the missing and excess jobs and then add them up. Both the point estimates\
and the standard errors are very close to each in other in the \'93simpler method\'94 and in our\
baseline regressions.\
Panel B of Table A.10shows the TWFE-logMW, \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erence (FD), and event-based\
(EB) regressions for teens (see the details in Online Appendix F). The variability in the\
estimates for teens is not driven by changes in employment in the upper tail. This is not\
surprising, since most teens earn below $15, and so variation in the upper tail can only have\
limited impact on the estimates. Column 6 estimates event based regression of the minimum\
wage on jobs below $15. Column 7 shows our baseline estimates where we estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect\
of the minimum wage on job counts in each wage bin, calculate the missing and excess jobs\
and then add them up. The estimates with the \'93simpler method\'94 (column 6) and with our\
baseline method (column 7) are very similar. In general, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the teen estimates\
from \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects models tend to be more negative than the \u64257 rst di\u64256 erence ones\'97similar to\
Allegretto et al. (2017), and to the estimates for overall employment. Moreover, event-based\
estimates are much closer to those using \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erencing, again mirroring the \u64257 ndings for\
overall employment.\
49\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 52 of 116]\
Figure A.1: Minimum Wage Increases between 1979 and 2016\
AK AK AKAKAZ AZ AZ\
AR ARARCA CACA CACA CACA CA CACO COCT CT CT CTCTCTDE DEDE\
DC DC DC DCDC DCDCDCFL FL FLHI HI HIHI HIHI HIHIIL IL IL\
IAIAIA IAMD\
MA MA MA MAMAMI MI MIMNMN MN MNMNMNMO MOMT MT MTNENENV NVNV\
NJ NJ NJNMNMNYNY NYNYNYNYOH OH OHOROROR OROROR OR OROR OR ORPA PAPARI RI RIRI RI RI RIRISDVTVT VT VTVTWAWA WA WAWA WA WA WAWVWVWV WVWV\
WI WI\
ALAL ALAL ALAL ALALALAZ AZAZ AZAZ\
ARAR ARAR ARAR ARCA CACOCO CODE DE\
DCFLFL FLFL FLFLGAGA GAGA GAGA GAHIHI HIID IDID IDID IDIDIDILIL ILIN ININ ININ ININ\
IA IAKS KSKS KSKS KSKSKYKY KYKY KYKY KYKYLALA LALA LALA LALALAMEME ME ME\
MD MD MD MD\
MAMI MIMI MIMIMN MNMN MNMSMS MSMS MSMS MSMSMS\
MO MOMO MOMOMT MTMT MTMT MTNENE NENE NENE NENV NVNV NVNV\
NHNJNMNM NMNM NMNMNY NYNY NYNY\
NCNC NCNC NCNC NCND NDND NDND NDOH OHOH OHOHOK OKOK OKOK OKOKOKPA PA PAPARISCSC SCSC SCSC SCSCSDSD SDSD SDSD SDTNTN TNTN TNTN TNTX TXTX TXTX TXTXUT UTUT UTUT UTVTVT VT\
VAVA VAVA VAVA VAWA WAWV WVWV WVWV\
WI WI WI WIWYWY WYWY WYWY\
AKAK AKAK AK AKAKAZ AZ AZ AZAZAZ\
ARCA CACOCO CO COCO COCOCOCO COCT CT CT CTCT CTCTCTCTCTCT CTCT CTDE DE DEDEDEDE DE DE DE DE\
DC DCDC DCDCFLFLFL FLFLFLGAGAHIIDILIL IL IL ILILIN IN\
IA IA IAKS KSKYMEMEME MEME ME MEME MEMEMEMEMEME\
MD MD MD MD MD MDMD\
MA MAMAMA MAMA MA MA MAMI MIMIMN MN MN MNMO MO MO MOMOMOMT MTMT MT MTMTMTNENENV NVNV\
NHNH NHNHNHNHNHNHNH NH NHNHNJ NJNJ NJ NJ NJ NJNMNY NY NY\
NC NCND ND NDNDOH OH OH OHOHOHOKOROR OROR OR ORORORORPA PA PARI RIRI RI RIRI RI RIRISCSDSD SDTNTNTX TXUT UTUTVTVTVTVTVT VTVTVTVTVT VTVTVTVTVT VTVTVT\
VAVAWA WAWAWAWAWAWA WA WA WAWAWAWV\
WI WI WI WIWYWY WY\
1979 1982 1985 1988 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 20152016\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows all minimum wage increases between 1979 and 2016. There are a total of 623\
minimum wage increases. The blue circles show the primary minimum wage events used in estimating\
equation 1; the light orange triangles highlight small minimum wage changes where minimum wage increased\
less than $0.25 (the size of our wage bins) or where less than 2 percent of the workforce earned between\
the new and the old minimum wage. The green circles indicate federal changes, which we exclude from our\
primary sample of treatments because the change in missing number of jobs, Db, is identi\uc0\u64257 ed only from\
time-series variation for these events as there are no \'93control states\'94 with wage \uc0\u64258 oors lower than the new\
minimum wage (see the text for details).\
50\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 53 of 116]\
Figure A.2: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Imputation Rate\
-.04 -.03 -.02 -.01 0 .01 .02 .03 .04Change in Imputation Rate\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the imputation rate. In our event study analysis\
we only use non-imputed hourly wages. To alleviate the concern that imputation has an e\uc0\u64256 ect on our\
estimates, we implement an event study regression where the outcome variable is state-level imputation\
rate. Events are the same 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016 that we use in our\
benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation. Similarly to our benchmark speci\u64257 cation we include state and time \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects in\
the regression. In the Online Appendix Table A.3we report results with other speci\uc0\u64257 cations. The blue line\
shows the evolution of the imputation rate (relative to the year before the treatment). We also show the 95%\
con\uc0\u64257 dence interval based on standard errors that are clustered at the state level.\
51\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 54 of 116]\
Figure A.3: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Self-Employment Rate\
-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0Change in Self-employment\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the self-employment rate. In our event study\
analysis we only use wage workers. To alleviate the concern that changes in self-employment rate have\
e\uc0\u64256 ects on our estimates, we implement an event study regression where the outcome variable is state-level\
self-employment rate. Events are the same 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016 that we\
use in our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation. Similarly to our benchmark speci\u64257 cation we include state and time \u64257 xed\
e\uc0\u64256 ects in the regression. The blue line shows the evolution of the self-employment rate (relative to the year\
before the treatment). We also show the 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence interval based on standard errors that are clustered\
at the state level.\
52\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 55 of 116]\
Figure A.4: Impact of Minimum Wages on Average Wage and on Employment Over Time\
-.05 0 .05 .1Percentage change in wage of affected workers\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
(a)Evolution of the average wage of the a\uc0\u64256 ected workers\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2Percentage change in employment of affected workers\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
(b)Evolution of the employment of the a\uc0\u64256 ected workers\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the main results from our event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138\
state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. Panel (a) shows the e\uc0\u64256 ect on the average wage over\
time, which is calculated using equation 2. Panel (b) shows the evolution of employment between $4 below\
the new minimum wage and $5 above it (relative to the total employment 1 year before the treatment), which\
is equal to the sum of missing jobs below and excess jobs at and slightly above the minimum wage, Db+Da.\
The \uc0\u64257 gure highlights that minimum wage had a positive and signi\u64257 cant e\u64256 ect on the average wage of the\
a\uc0\u64256 ected population, but there is no sign of signi\u64257 cant disemployment e\u64256 ects.\
53\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 56 of 116]\
Figure A.5: Change in Employment by Wage Bins after Aggregating Multiple Treatment\
Events\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.028 (0.004)\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.025 (0.005)\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.030 (0.041)\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.091 (0.013)-0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0 0.01 0.02 0.03Difference between actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins in $ relative to new MW\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure replicates Figure 2in the main text, but calculates a cumulative e\u64256 ect when there are\
multiple events in the 5-year post-treatment window. Overall, 65% of the time, a primary minimum wage\
increase is followed by a secondary one within 5 years, on average at $0.56 above the minimum for the primary\
event. Figure 2shows the partial e\uc0\u64256 ect of each event. Here we show the cumulative e\u64256 ect of all events within\
a 5-year post-treatment window by taking into account the incidence and size of secondary increases averaged\
across our sample of events. The blue bars show for each dollar bin (relative to the minimum wage) the\
estimated average employment changes in that bin during the 5-year post-treatment relative to the total\
employment in the state one year before the treatment. The red line is the running sum of the bin-speci\uc0\u64257 c\
impacts. Adjusting for multiple events increases the estimate for missing jobs below the new minimum from\
1.8% to 2.5%. Therefore, some of the di\uc0\u64256 erence between jobs below the new minimum wage, which is around\
8.6%, and the missing jobs below the new minimum wage can be explained by multiple events following each\
other.\
54\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 57 of 116]\
Figure A.6: Employment Elasticity with Respect to Own Wage in the Literature and in this\
Paper\
Addison et al. 2010Allegretto et al. 2011Bell 1997, ColombiaBurkhauser et al. 2000Campolieti et al. 2006Card 1992aCard 1992bCard et al. 1994Currie and Fallick 1996Dube et al. 2010Dube et al. 2007Ericksson and Pytlikova 2004, SlovakiaErickssov and Pytlikova 2004, Czech Rep.Fang and Lin 2015Giuliano 2013Hirsch et al 2015Kim and Taylor 1995Neumark and Nizalova 2007Perira 2003Sabia 2008 This paper - baselineThis paper - CK high prob group\
-2 -1.5 -1 -.5 0 .5 1 1.5 2\
Estimated Employment Elasticity With Respect To Own Wage\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure summarizes the estimated employment elasticity with respect to wage and compares it\
to the previous estimates in the literature. The estimates in the literature are collected by Harasztosi and\
Lindner(2016). The two estimates from our paper is the benchmark estimate on overall employment (Column\
1 in Table 1) and the estimates for the Card and Krueger high probability group Column 6 in Table 2. The\
dashed vertical line shows the lower bound of our benchmark estimates. The benchmark estimates can rule\
out 7 out of the 11 negative estimates provided in the previous literature.\
55\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 58 of 116]\
Figure A.7: Impact of the Minimum Wage by Demographic Groups\
B/HLTHS\
HSL\
Women\
Low prob.High prob.\
Medium prob.Teen0 .04 .08 .12 .16Excess jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment (\uc0\u916 a)\
0 .04 .08 .12 .16\
Magnitude of missing jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment (-\uc0\u916 b)\
45 degree line\
(a)E\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage by demographic groups\
LTHS; [16, 20)\
LTHS; [20, 30)\
LTHS; [30, 40)\
LTHS; [40, 50)LTHS; [50, 60)LTHS; 60+HSG; [16, 20)\
SC; [16, 20)\
SC; [20, 30)\
Coll; [50, 60)Slope = 1.070 (0.075)0 .04 .08 .12Excess jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment (\uc0\u916 a)\
0 .04 .08 .12\
Magnitude of missing jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment (\uc0\u916 b)\
Linear fit 45 degree line\
(b)E\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage by age-education groups\
Notes: Both \uc0\u64257 gures show the excess jobs (relative to the pre-treatment total employment in that group)\
above the new minimum wage ( Da) and magnitude of missing jobs below it ( \uc0\u8722 Db) for various demographic\
groups. The black dash line in both of the graphs are the 45 degree line indicating the locus of points where\
the excess number of jobs above and the missing jobs below the new minimum wage are exactly the same,\
and so the employment e\uc0\u64256 ect is zero. Estimates above that line indicate positive employment e\u64256 ects, and\
estimates below the line indicate negative ones. Panel (a) shows the estimates for demographic groups in\
Table2: those with less than high school (LTHS) education, high school or less (HSL) education, women,\
teen, black or Hispanic workers (B/H), and groups with low, medium and high probability of being exposed\
to the minimum wage increase. Panel (b) shows the estimates for education-by-age groups generated from 6\
age and 4 education categories. The small light gray and black points correspond to each of the groups, while\
the large blue squares show the non-parametric bin scattered relationship between the excess jobs ( Da) and\
the magnitude of missing jobs ( \uc0\u8722 Db). The red line shows the linear \u64257 t. A slope of that line below one would\
indicate the presence of labor-labor substitution across age and eduction groups.\
56\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 59 of 116]\
Figure A.8: Relationship between Excess Jobs, Missing jobs, Employment Change and the\
Minimum-to-Median Wage Ratio Across Events (Replicating Figure 5in the Main Text\
without using Controls)\
Excess jobs, slope =  0.143 (0.048)\
Missing jobs, slope =  -0.094 (0.032)-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04Change in employment relative to pre-treatment total employment\
0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55\
Minimum-to-median wage ratio\
(a) Missing and excess jobs\
Emp. change, slope =  0.050 (0.043)-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04Change in employment relative to pre-treatment total employment\
0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55\
Minimum-to-median wage ratio\
(b) Employment change\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure replicates Figure 5in the main text without using controls in the regression. The \u64257 gure\
shows the binned scatter plots for missing jobs, excess jobs, and total employment changes by value of the\
minimum-to-median wage ratio (Kaitz index) for the 130 event-speci\uc0\u64257 c estimates. The minimum-to-median\
wage ratio is the new minimum wage MWdivided by the median wage at the time of the minimum wage\
increase (Kaitz index). The 130 events exclude 8 minimum wage raising events in the District of Columbia,\
since those events are very noisily estimated in the CPS. The bin scatters and linear \uc0\u64257 ts plot the relationship\
without any control variables. Estimates are weighted by the state populations. The slope (and robust\
standard error in parentheses) is from the weighted linear \uc0\u64257 t of the outcome on the minimum-to-median wage\
ratio.\
57\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 60 of 116]\
Figure A.9: Relationship between Employment Change and the Minimum-to-Median Wage\
Ratio Across Events, Scatterplot\
-.1 0 .1 .2 .3 .4Change in employment relative to\
pre-treatment total employment\
0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60\
MWtomed\
130 state-level events D.C. events\
Linear fit of the 130 events Linear fit including D.C. events\
(a) Population weighted\
-.1 0 .1 .2 .3 .4Change in employment relative to\
pre-treatment total employment\
0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60\
MWtomed\
130 state-level events D.C. events\
Linear fit of the 130 events Linear fit including D.C. events\
(a) Unweighted\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the population weighted and unweighted scatter plots of the estimated percentage\
change in employment in [MW\uc0\u8722 $4, MW +$5)bins of each of the 138 events during the 5-year post-\
treatment relative to the 1-year pre-treatment period against the minimum-to-median wage ratio. The\
estimated employment change of each event is created from 138 regressions corresponding to each event, as\
explained in Section 3.3. The red circles indicate D.C. events, and the green circles the remaining 130 events.\
The lines are linear \uc0\u64257 ts. The green line employs the 130 events; while the red one all events.\
58\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 61 of 116]\
Figure A.10: Impact on Employment throughout the Wage Distribution in the Two-Way\
Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects Model on log Minimum Wages - Weighted and Unweighted Estimates\
Employment elas. = -0.089 (0.025)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(a) Weighted\
Employment elas. = -0.122 (0.035)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(b) Unweighted\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution using \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects\
speci\uc0\u64257 cations (TWFE-logMW), with and without population weights. Both panels estimate two-way (state-\
bin and year) \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects regressions on contemporaneous as well as 2 annual leads, and 4 annual lags\
of log minimum wage (panel (a) is the same as Figure 6in the main text). For each wage bin we run\
a separate regression, where the outcome is the number of jobs per capita in that state-wage bin. The\
cumulative response for each event date 0, 1, ..., 4 is formed by successively adding the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for\
the contemporaneous and lagged log minimum wages. The green bars show the mean of these cumulative\
responses for event dates 0, 1, ..., 4, divided by the sample average employment-to-population rate \'97and\
represents the average elasticity of employment in each wage bin with respect to the minimum wage in\
the post-treatment period. The 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates are calculated using\
clustered standard errors at the state level. The dashed purple line plots the running sum of the employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage up until the particular wage bin. The rightmost purple bar in each of the graphs\
is the elasticity of the overall state employment-to-population rate with respect to minimum wage, obtained\
from regressions where outcome variables are the state level employment-to-population rate. In the bottom\
left corner we also report the point estimate on this elasticity with standard errors that are clustered at the\
state level. Regressions in panels (a) are weighted by state population; whereas the ones in panels (b) are not\
weighted. 59\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 62 of 116]\
Table A.1: T-statistics for the Wage E\uc0\u64256 ects of the Minimum Wage - Bunching and Aggregate\
Approaches\
Bunching Aggregated\
All workers 6.942 0.577\
Less than high school 5.526 1.359\
High school or less 5.487 0.549\
Teens 4.603 4.965\
Women 6.261 0.796\
Black or Hispanic 3.585 0.584\
High prob. group 6.822 3.003\
Middle group 3.973 1.140\
Low prob. group 1.866 \'960.136\
Notes.Each cell reports the t-statistic from the esti-\
mated wage e\uc0\u64256 ect with respect to the minimum wage for\
various demographic groups. The bunching approach is\
the preferred speci\uc0\u64257 cation in this paper, estimating the\
wage e\uc0\u64256 ect from bin-speci\u64257 c employment changes near\
the relevant minimum wage. The aggregated approach\
uses as the outcome overall aggregate employment. For\
the bunching case, the wage e\uc0\u64256 ect is the estimated per-\
centage change of a\uc0\u64256 ected workers. For the aggregated\
case, the wage e\uc0\u64256 ect is the elasticity of the wage with\
respect to the minimum wage. Regressions are weighted\
by state averaged population of the demographic groups.\
T-statistics are obtained by dividing the estimated wage\
e\uc0\u64256 ects by robust standard errors clustered by state.\
60\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 63 of 116]\
Table A.2: Precision of the Employment Elasticities with Respect to the Minimum Wage -\
Bunching and Aggregate Approaches\
Bunching AggregatedRatio of bunching to\
aggregated standard errors\
All workers 0.024 0.016 0.878\
(0.025) (0.029)\
Less than high school 0.097 0.178* 0.654\
(0.061) (0.094)\
High school or less 0.061 0.041 0.756\
(0.042) (0.055)\
Teens 0.125 0.128 1.011\
(0.134) (0.132)\
Women 0.025 \'960.006 0.825\
(0.027) (0.033)\
Black or Hispanic \'960.005 \'960.004 0.716\
(0.058) (0.082)\
High prob. group 0.052 0.081 0.876\
(0.062) (0.071)\
Middle group 0.016 0.057* 1.443\
(0.049) (0.034)\
Low prob. group 0.003 0.001 0.558\
(0.014) (0.026)\
Notes.Columns 1-2 report the separately estimated employment elasticity with respect to\
the minimum wage for the bunching and aggregate approaches, for various demographic\
groups. Column 3 reports the ratio of the bunching to aggregate approach standard\
errors. The bunching approach is the preferred speci\uc0\u64257 cation in this paper, using wage-\
bin-speci\uc0\u64257 c employment per capita changes as the outcome. The aggregate approach uses\
overall employment per-capita as the outcome. Robust standard errors in parentheses\
are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
61\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 64 of 116]\
Table A.3: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Imputation Rate in Various Regression\
Speci\uc0\u64257 cations\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
Dimputation rate -0.000 0.001 0.001 0.002 -0.004 -0.002 -0.002 -0.001\
(0.004) (0.004) (0.004) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003)\
# observations 7,242 7,242 7,242 7,242 7,242 7,242 7,242 7,242\
Mean of the dep. var 0.249 0.249 0.249 0.249 0.280 0.280 0.280 0.280\
Controls\
State trends Y Y Y Y\
Division-by-year FE Y Y Y Y\
Weighted Y Y Y Y\
Notes.The table reports 5-year averaged change in the imputation rate of the CPS from 1979 to 2016 after\
the primary 138 events. The dependent variable is the imputation rate, de\uc0\u64257 ned as the number of imputed\
observations divided by the number of employed observations. The estimates are calculated by employing an\
event based approach, where we regress state imputation rates on quarterly leads and lags on treatment\
spanning 12 quarters before and 19 quarters after the policy change. All speci\uc0\u64257 cations include state, and\
quarter \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. Columns 2, 4, 6, and 8 controls for state linear trends; whereas columns 3, 4, 7, and 8\
allow census divisions to be a\uc0\u64256 ected di\u64256 erently by macroeconomic shocks. The regressions are not weighted\
in columns 1-4; and they are population weighted in columns 5-8. Robust standard errors in parentheses are\
clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
62\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 65 of 116]\
T\
able A.4: Robustness of the Impact of Minimum Wages to Alternative Workforce, Treatment and Sample De\uc0\u64257 nitions\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.027*** -0.020*** -0.013*** -0.033*** -0.016*** -0.018*** -0.017*** -0.019*** -0.016***\
(0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.008) (0.004) (0.004) (0.003) (0.004) (0.004)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.026*** 0.019*** 0.016*** 0.036*** 0.017*** 0.022*** 0.019*** 0.020*** 0.019***\
(0.002) (0.003) (0.003) (0.007) (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.003) (0.002)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.065*** 0.067*** 0.073*** 0.094*** 0.082*** 0.077*** 0.070*** 0.058*** 0.069***\
(0.007) (0.012) (0.012) (0.020) (0.014) (0.011) (0.010) (0.011) (0.010)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment -0.009 -0.010 0.044 0.029 0.028 0.046 0.028 0.007 0.028\
(0.034) (0.021) (0.033) (0.035) (0.039) (0.042) (0.030) (0.029) (0.030)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW -0.010 -0.009 0.029 0.029 0.017 0.039 0.022 0.006 0.023\
(0.036) (0.019) (0.022) (0.035) (0.024) (0.036) (0.024) (0.026) (0.026)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage -0.139 -0.157 0.601 0.306 0.337 0.590 0.401 0.122 0.401\
(0.530) (0.326) (0.442) (0.392) (0.496) (0.536) (0.418) (0.495) (0.447)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.099 0.083 0.067 0.104 0.061 0.087 0.079 0.087 0.086\
%DMW 0.093 0.096 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.100 0.097 0.101\
Number of events 44 369 138 138 138 138 138 116 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 531,063 847,314\
Number of workers in the sample 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,561,684 2,824,287 4,402,488 4,694,104 4,694,104 2,503,803 4,694,104\
Set of eventsNo tip\
credit\
statesState &\
FederalPrimary Primary Primary Primary Primary PrimaryPrimary,\
treatment\
in 25-cent\
increments\
Sample All workers All workers FTEHourly\
workersNon-tipped\
occupationsCPS-Raw UnweightedAll workers,\
post-1992All workers\
Notes.The\
table reports robustness checks for the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase based on the event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting minimum wage changes between\
1979 and 2016. All columns except column (2) are based on state-level minimum wage changes. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment estimates on missing jobs up to $4\
below the new minimum wage, excess jobs at and up to $5 above it, employment and wages. Column (1) reports estimates for the 44 events which occured in states that do not allow\
tip credit. Column (2) reports estimates using 369 state or federal minimum wage increases. Column (3) uses full time equivalent job counts and so takes changes in hours worked into\
account. Column (4) uses workers who directly reported being hourly workers in the survey. Column (5) uses workers in non-tipped occupations only. Column (6) does not use the\
QCEW benchmarking, and instead reports the estimates calculated using the raw CPS counts (see Section 4.2 for details). All regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated\
population except Column (7), where we report unweighted estimates. Column (8) only considers minimum wage events that happened on or before 2012q1 to ensure a full \uc0\u64257 ve\
year post-treatment period. Column (9) shows the results for the post-1992 sample. Column (10) de\uc0\u64257 nes treatment indicators in 25 cent increments. All speci\u64257 cations include wage\
bin-by-state and wage bin-by period \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state; signi\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage ( Db), and excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative\
to the pre-treatment total employment. The third row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is calculated using equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth\
row, percentage change in employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The \u64257 fth row, employment\
elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the sixth row, employment elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the number\
of observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells used for estimation, while the number of workers refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
63\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 66 of 116]\
Table A.5: Impact of Minimum Wage Increase on the Average Wage and Employment of\
A\uc0\u64256 ected workers - Robustness to Alternative Wage Windows\
Alternative wage window\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)\
Missing jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.018***\
(0.004) (0.004) (0.004) (0.004) (0.004)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.018*** 0.021*** 0.021*** 0.020*** 0.021***\
(0.003) (0.002) (0.003) (0.003) (0.002)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.046*** 0.064*** 0.068*** 0.068*** 0.081***\
(0.009) (0.008) (0.010) (0.013) (0.012)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment -0.002 0.029 0.028 0.024 0.033\
(0.025) (0.031) (0.029) (0.031) (0.034)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW -0.001 0.025 0.024 0.020 0.028\
(0.021) (0.027) (0.025) (0.026) (0.029)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage -0.038 0.452 0.411 0.349 0.410\
(0.539) (0.479) (0.430) (0.443) (0.390)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961) 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086\
%DMW 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101\
Number of event 138 138 138 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314\
Number of workers in the sample 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104\
Upper endpoint of wage window ( W): MW+$2 MW+$3 MW+$4 MW+$5 MW+$6\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase based on the event study analysis (see\
equation 1) exploiting 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve\
year averaged post-treatment estimates on missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage, excess jobs,\
employment and wages. The di\uc0\u64256 erent columns explore the robustness of the results to alternative upper end\
points,W, for calculating excess jobs. The \uc0\u64257 rst column limits the range of the wage window by setting the\
upper limit for calculating the excess jobs to W=$2, and the last column expands it until W=$6. All\
speci\uc0\u64257 cations include wage bin-by-state and wage bin-by period \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. Regressions are weighted by\
state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 -\
cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new min-\
imum wage ( Db), and excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment total\
employment. The third row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is cal-\
culated using equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected\
bins is calculated by dividing change in employment by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The\
\uc0\u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DMWwhereas the\
sixth row, employment elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the number of\
observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells used for estimation, while the number of workers refers to\
the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
64\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 67 of 116]\
Table A.6: Impact of Minimum Wage Increase on the Average Wage and Employment of\
A\uc0\u64256 ected workers - Robustness to Alternative Time Windows\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.021*** -0.018*** -0.018*** -0.018***\
(0.004) (0.004) (0.002) (0.002) (0.003)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.021*** 0.021*** 0.019*** 0.021*** 0.019***\
(0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) (0.003)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.068*** 0.065*** 0.064*** 0.068*** 0.067***\
(0.010) (0.010) (0.009) (0.009) (0.009)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.028 0.010 0.022 0.029 0.013\
(0.029) (0.025) (0.031) (0.032) (0.029)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.024 0.008 0.018 0.025 0.011\
(0.025) (0.021) (0.027) (0.027) (0.025)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.411 0.148 0.335 0.427 0.197\
(0.430) (0.380) (0.461) (0.445) (0.436)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086\
%DMW 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101 0.101\
Number of events 138 138 138 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314 847,314\
Number of workers in the sample 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104 4,694,104\
Time window [-3, 4] [-3, 2] [-3, 6] [-5, 4] [-1, 4]\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase based on the event study analysis (see\
equation 1) exploiting 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. The table reports aver-\
aged post-treatment estimates on missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage, excess jobs at and\
up to $5 above it, employment and wages. The di\uc0\u64256 erent columns explore the robustness of the results\
to alternative time windows. The \uc0\u64257 rst column reproduces our baseline estimate in Table 1 column 1.\
Compared to the baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation, columns 2 and 3 change the post-treatment period to 2 and 6\
years, respectively. Similarly, in columns 4 and 5, we start the pre-treatment window from 5 years and one\
year prior to the event. All speci\uc0\u64257 cations include wage-bin-by-state and wage-bin-by-period \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects.\
Regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in parentheses\
are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new\
minimum wage ( Db), and excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment\
total employment. The third row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is\
calculated using equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in employment in the af-\
fected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1).\
The \uc0\u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas\
the sixth row, employment elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line on the num-\
ber of observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells used for estimation, while the number of workers\
refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
65\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 68 of 116]\
Table A.7: Impact of Minimum Wages on Employment and Wages for Card and Krueger\
Probability Groups - Bunching and Aggregate approaches\
(1)\
(2) (3)\
P\
anel A: Aggregate\
%Da\
verage wage 0.020*** 0.007 -0.001\
(0.007) (0.006) (0.004)\
%Demployment 0.008 0.006 0.000\
(0.009) (0.005) (0.002)\
Employment elasticity wrt wage 0.435 N/A N/A\
(0.371)\
Panel B: Bunching\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected\
wages 0.073*** 0.051*** 0.060*\
(0.011) (0.013) (0.032)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.015 0.015 0.011\
(0.018) (0.048) (0.055)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.206 0.304 0.184\
(0.233) (0.904) (0.841)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.358 0.104 0.027\
%DMW 0.102 0.102 0.101\
Number of events 138 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 847,314\
Group: High\
prob. Middle prob. Low prob.\
Notes.The table reports the wage and employment elasticities with respect to the min-\
imum wage for the high , middle, and the low probability groups using the Card and\
Krueger predictive model of exposure to minimum wage changes. Both panels A and B\
are based on the 138 state level events and an event-based approach with \uc0\u64257 ve year post-\
treatment period. Panel A reports the estimates for aggregate employment and wages\
for the three groups. Panel B reports the estimated employment and wage e\uc0\u64256 ect for af-\
fected workers using the bunching approach. Regressions are weighted by state averaged\
population of the relevant demographic group. Robust standard errors in parentheses\
are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
66\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 69 of 116]\
Table A.8: Impact of Minimum Wage Increase by Pre-Treatment Employment Status: New\
Entrants and Incumbents\
Matc\
hed CPS\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.023*** -0.018*** -0.012*** -0.005***\
(0.004) (0.004) (0.003) (0.002) (0.001)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.021*** 0.025*** 0.018*** 0.013*** 0.006***\
(0.003) (0.004) (0.002) (0.002) (0.001)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.068*** 0.073*** 0.059*** 0.095*** 0.019\
(0.010) (0.011) (0.013) (0.020) (0.013)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.028 0.023 0.009 0.009 0.008\
(0.029) (0.024) (0.046) (0.068) (0.034)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.024 0.019 0.006 0.003 0.003\
(0.025) (0.021) (0.032) (0.026) (0.011)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.411 0.311 0.145 0.094 0.431\
(0.430) (0.320) (0.747) (0.704) (1.682)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.086 0.086 0.072 0.042 0.384\
%DMW 0.101 0.101 0.103 0.103 0.103\
Number of events 138 138 137 137 137\
Number of observations 847,314 847,314 733,941 733,941 733,941\
Number of workers in the sample 4,694,104 4,694,104 1,505,192 1,373,696 131,496\
Sample: All workers All workersAll matched\
workersIncumbentsNew\
entrants\
Time window: 5 years 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year\
Notes.The table reports 1 year post-treatment estimates of employment and wages of the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins for all workers\
(incumbents and new entrants) using state-quarter-wage bin aggregated CPS data from 1979-2016, and matched CPS\
data from 1980-2016. Incumbent workers are employed in the 4th interview month of CPS, and new entrants are not\
employed in the 4th interview month. The \uc0\u64257 rst column replicates column 1 in Table 1for comparability. The second\
column includes all workers in the primary CPS sample and employs the baseline speci\uc0\u64257 cation, but reports only the \u64257 rst\
year e\uc0\u64256 ects. The third and fourth columns use matched CPS and consider only the \u64257 rst year e\u64256 ects on incumbent, and\
new-entrant workers. Speci\uc0\u64257 cations include wage bin-by-state, wage bin-by period, and state-by-period \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects.\
Regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in parentheses are clustered\
by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage\
(Db), and excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-treatment total employment. The third\
row, the percentage change in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is calculated using equation 2in Section 2.2.\
The fourth row, percentage change in employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change in employment\
by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1). The \u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage\
is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the sixth row, employment elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1.\
The line on the number of observations shows the number of quarter-bin cells used for estimation, while the number of\
workers refers to the underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
67\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 70 of 116]\
Table A.9: Robustness of the Relationship Between Employment Changes and the Minimum-to-Median Wage Ratio (Kaitz\
Index) Across Events\
Jobs\
below new MW\
(b\'961)Missing\
jobs\
(Db)Excess jobs\
(Da)Employment change\
(Da+Db)\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
P\
anel A: Main estimates\
Minim\
um-to-median ratio 0.314*** 0.361*** -0.094*** -0.133*** 0.143*** 0.139** 0.050 0.006\
(0.063) (0.056) (0.032) (0.034) (0.048) (0.057) (0.043) (0.048)\
Panel B: With D.C.\
Minim\
um-to-median ratio 0.312*** 0.358*** -0.075** -0.111*** 0.149*** 0.148** 0.074 0.037\
(0.061) (0.055) (0.035) (0.037) (0.048) (0.057) (0.049) (0.055)\
Panel C: Unweighted\
Minim\
um-to-median ratio 0.275*** 0.286*** -0.112*** -0.128*** 0.142*** 0.134*** 0.031 0.006\
(0.035) (0.035) (0.024) (0.026) (0.037) (0.041) (0.038) (0.042)\
Number of observations\
P\
anels A, C 130 130 130 130 130 130 130 130\
Panel B 138 138 138 138 138 138 138 138\
Controls Y Y Y Y\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum-to-median wage ratio (Kaitz index) on four outcomes: jobs below the new minimum\
wage, missing jobs, excess jobs, and the total employment change. The minimum-to-median wage ratio is the new minimum wage\
divided by the state-level median wage. Odd columns reports simple linear regression estimates. Even columns include the controls in\
Table A.9. Regressions are weighted by state-populations. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, **\
0.05, *** 0.01.\
68\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 71 of 116]\
T\
able A.10: Employment Elasticities of Minimum Wage from Alternative Approaches\
Con\
tinuous treatment -\
ln(MW)Event based\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)\
Fixed\
E\uc0\u64256 ects First Di\u64256 erence Fixed E\u64256 ects First Di\u64256 erence\
Panel A: Overall\
Emplo\
yment elasticity wrt MW -0.089*** 0.027 -0.020 -0.005 0.016 0.027 0.024\
(0.025) (0.031) (0.028) (0.019) (0.029) (0.022) (0.025)\
Panel B: Teen\
Emplo\
yment elasticity wrt MW -0.238*** 0.094 -0.210** 0.080 0.163 0.152 0.125\
(0.088) (0.122) (0.091) (0.120) (0.115) (0.107) (0.134)\
Aggregate\
Y Y Y\
Under $15 Y Y Y\
[MW\'96$4,MW +$5) Y\
Data aggregationState-\
yearState-\
yearState-\
yearState-\
yearState-\
yearState-\
yearWage-bin-\
state-\
quarter\
Notes.The table reports estimated overall (panel A) and teen (panel B) employment elasticities of minimum wage from alternative approaches. All\
columns show average post-treatment elasticities calculated from regressions of state-level employment to population rate on contemporaneous and 4\
annual lags and 2 annual leads of log minimum wages. We use state-by-year aggregated CPS data from 1979-2016. Columns (1) and (3) estimate\
two-way (state and year) \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect regresions, while in columns (2) and (4) we employ \u64257 rst di\u64256 erences. Column (3) and (4) exclude workers with\
hourly wages greater than $15. Columns (5)-(7) report estimates employment elasticities using an event study framework where we exploit the same\
138 events as in our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cations. In column (5), we use state by quarter aggregated CPS data. In column (6) we directly estimate the\
e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on jobs below $15. We refer to this speci\u64257 cation as simpler method in Section 4.2., since it directly estimate the sum of\
missing and excess jobs. Finally, column (7) shows estimates from the bunching approach (same as in column 1 of Table 1, and column 3 of Table 2).\
In all cases we show estimates with and without population weighting. Standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are *\
0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
69\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 72 of 116]\
Online Appendix B\
Washington State Case Study\
In this Appendix, we report estimates using administrative data on hourly wages for a case\
study of a large state-level minimum wage increase. The state of Washington increased its\
real hourly minimum wage by around 22% from $7.51 to $9.18 (in 2016 dollars) in two steps\
between 1999 and 2000. Moreover, this increase in the real minimum wage was persistent,\
since subsequent increases were automatically indexed to the rate of in\uc0\u64258 ation. In addition to\
the size and permanence of this intervention, Washington is an attractive case study because\
it is one of the few states with high quality administrative data on hourly wages.39Using\
hourly wage data, we can easily calculate the actual post-reform wage distribution (blue\
line in Figure 1). However, the key challenge implementing the bunching method is that we\
do not directly observe the wage distribution in the absence of the minimum wage increase\
(red line in Figure 1). To overcome this challenge, the previous literature constructed the\
counterfactual by imposing strong parametric assumptions (Meyer and Wise 1983) or simply\
used the pre-reform wage distribution as a counterfactual (Harasztosi and Lindner 2016).40\
Here we improve upon these research designs by implementing a di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences style\
estimator.\
In particular, we discretize the wage distribution, and count per-capita employment for\
each dollar wage bin k. For example, the $10 wage bin includes jobs paying between $10 and\
$10.99 in 2016$. We normalize these counts by the pre-treatment employment-to-population\
rate in Washington,\
eWA,k,Post =1\
EWA,Pre\
NWA,PreEWA,k,Post\
NWA,Post\
whereEWA,k,t\
NWA,tis per-capita employment for each dollar wage bin kin state Washington at\
timet, andNWA,tis the size of the population. We use administrative data on hourly wages\
from Washington State to calculate eWA,k,Post .\
We calculate the post treatment counterfactual wage distribution for each wage bin,\
eCF\
WA,k,Post,by adding the (population-weighted) average per capita employment change in\
the 39 states that did not experience a minimum wage increase during the 1998-2004 time\
period to the Washington state\'92s pre-treatment per-capita wage distribution. After the\
appropriate normalization, this leads to the following expression:\
39The state of Washington requires all employers, as part of the state\'92s Unemployment Insurance (UI)\
payroll tax requirements, to report both the quarterly earnings and quarterly hours worked for all employees.\
The administrative data covers a near census of employee records from the state. One key advantage of the\
bunching method proposed here is that there is no need for con\uc0\u64257 dential or sensitive individual-level data for\
implementation. Instead, we rely here on micro-aggregated data on employment counts for 5-cent hourly\
wage bins. Workers with hourly wages greater than $50 are censored for con\uc0\u64257 dentiality purposes. We de\u64258 ate\
wages to 2016 dollars using the CPI-U-RS.\
40As shown in Dickens, Machin and Manning (1998), estimates using the Meyer and Wise 1983 approach is\
highly sensitive to the parameterization of the wage distribution.\
70\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 73 of 116]\
eCF\
WA,k,Post =1\
EWA,Pre\
NWA,Pre/bracehtipupleft/bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft/bracehtipupright\'d7\uc0\u63726 \
\uc0\u63727 \u63728 EWA,k,Pre\
NWA,Pre/bracehtipupleft/bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft/bracehtipupright+/summationdisplay\
s\uc0\u8712 Control1\
39/parenleftBiggEs,k,Post\
Ns,Post\uc0\u8722 Es,k,Pre\
Ns,Pre/parenrightBigg\
/bracehtipupleft /bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft /bracehtipupright\uc0\u63737 \
\uc0\u63738 \u63738 \u63739 \
normalization Pre-treament Change in control\
in WA states\
whereEskt\
Ns,tis per-capita employment for each dollar wage bin kin statesat timet, andNst\
is the size of the population (age 16 or over) in state sat timet. To calculate the third part\
of this expression, the change in control states, we use hourly wage data from the Outgoing\
Rotation Group of the Current Population Survey (CPS). We will discuss the data in more\
detail in Section 2.3. For the second part of the expression, the pre-treatment Washington\
wage distribution, we use administrative data on hourly wages. However, in Appendix Figure\
B.4we show that when we use the CPS, we get very similar results. Finally, the \uc0\u64257 rst part of\
this expression, the normalization, is to express the counterfactual employment counts in\
terms of pre-treatment total employment in Washington. It is worth highlighting that our\
normalization does not force the area below the counterfactual wage distribution to be the\
same as the area below the actual wage distribution\'97in other words, the minimum wage can\
a\uc0\u64256 ect aggregate employment.\
In Figure B.1, panel (a) we report the actual (blue \uc0\u64257 lled bar) and the counterfactual\
(red empty bars) frequency distributions of wages, normalized by the pre-treatment total\
employment in Washington. We de\uc0\u64257 ne the pre-treatment period as 1996-1998, and the post-\
treatment period as 2000-2004. The post-treatment actual wage distribution in Washington\
state (blue \uc0\u64257 lled bars) shows that very few workers earn less than the mandated wage, and\
there is a large spike at the new minimum wage at $9. The post-treatment counterfactual\
distribution di\uc0\u64256 ers considerably. That distribution indicates that in the absence of the\
minimum wage increase, there would have been more jobs in the $7 and $8 bins, but fewer\
jobs at the $9 bin and above. Compared to the counterfactual wage distribution, the actual\
distribution is also elevated $1 and $2 above the minimum wage, which suggests that minimum\
wages induce some modest spillover e\uc0\u64256 ects. At the same time, the ripple e\u64256 ect of the minimum\
wage fades out above $12, and no di\uc0\u64256 erence is found between the actual and counterfactual\
distribution above that point. Such a relationship between the actual and counterfactual\
distributions closely resembles the illustration of the bunching method shown in Figure 1.\
The di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual, eWA,k,Post , and the counterfactual, eCF\
WA,k,Post , fre-\
quency distributions of wages represents the causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage\
distribution. This di\uc0\u64256 erence can be expressed as:\
71\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 74 of 116]\
eWA,k,Post\uc0\u8722 eCF\
WA,k,Post =1\
EWA,Pre\
NWA,Pre/bracehtipupleft/bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft/bracehtipupright\'d7\uc0\u63726 \
\uc0\u63727 \u63728 EWA,k,Post\
NWA,Post\uc0\u8722 EWA,k,Pre\
NWA,Pre/bracehtipupleft/bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft /bracehtipupright\
normalization Change in treatment\
\uc0\u8722 /summationdisplay\
s\uc0\u8712 Control1\
39/parenleftBiggEWA,k,Post\
Ns,Post\uc0\u8722 EWA,k,Pre\
Ns,Pre/parenrightBigg\
/bracehtipupleft /bracehtipdownright/bracehtipdownleft /bracehtipupright\uc0\u63737 \
\uc0\u63738 \u63738 \u63739 \
Change in control\
(B.5)\
which is the classic di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences estimator underlying the core estimates in the\
paper. Standard errors are calculated using the procedure proposed by Ferman and Pinto\
(forthcoming). Appropriate for a single treated unit, their procedure extends the cluster\
residual bootstrap by correcting for sample-size based heteroskedasticity\'97an important issue\
given the very di\uc0\u64256 erent sample sizes across states in the CPS, and because Washington is\
based on administrative data.\
The blue bars in Panel (b) of Figure B.1report the di\uc0\u64256 erences in job counts for each\
wage bin. The di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erences estimate shows a clear drop in counts for wage bins\
just below the new minimum wage. In the upper part of the table we report our estimate of\
missing jobs,/triangleb, which is the sum of employment changes,/summationtext$8\
k=$5eWA,k,Post\uc0\u8722 eCF\
WA,k,Post ,\
between $5 and $8\'97i.e., under the new minimum wage. These missing jobs paying below\
$9 represent around 4.6% of the aggregate pre-treatment Washington employment. We\
also calculate the number of excess jobs paying between $9 and $13, /trianglea, which is equal\
to/summationtext$13\
k=$9eWA,k,Post\uc0\u8722 eCF\
WA,k,Post . The excess jobs represent around 5.4% of the aggregate\
pre-treatment Washington employment.\
As we explained in the previous section, the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on low-wage jobs\
is equal to the sum of the missing jobs below and the excess jobs above the new minimum\
wage of $9. We \uc0\u64257 nd that the net employment change is positive\'97the increase amounted\
to 0.8% of the pre-treatment aggregate employment in Washington. This re\uc0\u64258 ects a 6.1%\
(s.e. 10.9%) increase in employment for the workers who earned below the new minimum\
wage in 1998. We also \uc0\u64257 nd that average wages of a\u64256 ected workers at the bottom of the\
wage distribution increased by around 9.0% (s.e.18.8%) Coming from a single case study, the\
precision of these estimates is much lower than in the pooled event study estimates presented\
in the main paper.\
In Panel (b) of Figure 2, the red line shows the running sum of employment changes up\
to each wage bin. The running sum drops to a sizable, negative value just below the new\
minimum wage, but returns to around zero once the minimum wage is reached. By around\
$2 above the minimum wage, the running sum reaches a small positive value and remains \uc0\u64258 at\
thereafter\'97indicating little change in upper tail employment. This strengthens the case for\
a causal interpretation of these results.\
Finally, we also explore the evolution of missing jobs (red line) and excess jobs (blue line)\
over time in panel (a) in Online Appendix Figure B.3. The \uc0\u64257 gure shows that excess and\
72\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 75 of 116]\
missing jobs are close to zero before 1999, and there are no systematic pre-existing trends.41\
Once the minimum wage is raised in two steps between 1999 and 2000, there is a clear and\
sustained drop in jobs below the new minimum wage (relative to the counterfactual). Since\
the minimum wage is indexed to in\uc0\u64258 ation in Washington, the persistence of the drop is not\
surprising. The evolution of excess jobs after 2000 closely matches the evolution of missing\
jobs. As a result, the net employment change\'97which is the sum of missing and excess\
jobs\'97is close to zero in all years following the minimum wage increase (see panel (b) in\
FigureB.3).\
41There is a one-time, temporary, drop in excess jobs and an increase in missing jobs in 1996, which likely\
re\uc0\u64258 ects the fact that the 1996 federal minimum increase from $4.25 to $4.75 only a\u64256 ected control states, since\
Washington\'92s minimum wage was already at $4.90 (in current dollars). However, the 1997 federal minimum\
wage increase to $5.15 a\uc0\u64256 ected both Washington and controls states and hence restored the di\u64256 erence in\
excess and missing jobs prior to Washington\'92s state minimum wage increase in 1999 and 2000.\
73\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 76 of 116]\
Figure B.1: Employment by Wage Bins in Washington between 2000-2004\
.19 .2 .21 .22 .23 .24 .25\
Actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment ($26+ bin)0 .01 .02 .03 .04 .05 .06Actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 26+Wage bins in 2016$\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 17+\
Wage bins relative to $9 in 2016$\
Actual distribution\
Counterfactual distribution\
(a)The actual and counterfactual frequency distribution of wages\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.054 (0.017)\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.046 (0.016)\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.061 (0.188)\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.090 (0.108)-0.04 -0.02 0.00 0.02 0.04Difference between actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 2526+Wage bins in 2016$\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins relative to $9 in 2016$\
(b)The di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual and counterfactual frequency distribution of wages\
Notes: We examine the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the 1999-2000 minimum wage change in Washington state on the frequency distribution of\
wages (aggregated in $1 bins), normalized by the 1998 level of employment in Washington. The minimum wage was raised from\
$7.51 to $9.18 (in 2016 values) and it was indexed by in\uc0\u64258 ation afterwards. Panel (a) shows the actual (purple solid bars) and\
counterfactual (red outlined bars) wage frequency distribution after the minimum wage increases in Washington. The actual\
distribution (post treatment) plots the average employment between 2000 and 2004 by wage-bin relative to the 1998 total\
employment in Washington using administrative data on hourly wages between 2000-2004. The counterfactual distribution\
adds the average change in employment between 2000 and 2004 in states without any minimum wage change to the mean\
1996-1998 job counts (see the text for details). The $26+ bin (the bin that is $17+ above the new minimum wage) contains all\
workers earning above $26, and its values shown on the right y-axis. Panel (b) depicts the di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual and the\
counterfactual wage distribution. The blue bars show the change in employment at each wage bin (relative to the 1998 total\
employment in Washington). The red line shows the overall employment changes up to that wage bin. The upper right panel\
shows the estimates on missing jobs below $9, /triangleb; on the excess jobs between $9 and $13, /trianglea, and on the estimated employment\
and wage e\uc0\u64256 ects. The standard errors are calculated using the method proposed by Ferman and Pinto (forthcoming).\
74\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 77 of 116]\
Figure B.2: Comparison of Per-capita Employment Counts of Washington and the Counter-\
factual\
8.4% MW inc. 10.3% MW inc.0 0.03 0.06 0.09 0.12 0.15 0.18 0.21Employment counts per capita\
1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004\
Year\
WA, [$5, $8] WA, [$9, $13]\
Counterfactual, [$5, $8] Counterfactual, [$9, $13]\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the evolution of the number of jobs per capita with hourly wages between $5 and $8,\
and $9 and $13 in Washington and in the counterfactual, with data aggregated in $1 bins. The counterfactual\
jobs are calculated using states without any minimum wage change during the 1998-2004 time period. In\
particular, we add the average change in per capita employment between $5 and $8 (and between $9 and $13)\
in the control states to the mean 1996-1998 job counts in Washington state (see the text for details). The two\
vertical dashed black lines at 1998 and 1999 show the that the minimum wage was raised in 1999 and 2000\
in two steps from from $7.51 to $9.18 (in 2016 values). The minimum wage was indexed to in\uc0\u64258 ation after\
2001. We exclude all observations with imputed wages in the CPS in forming the counterfactual employment\
counts, except for years 1994 and 1995. Since determining imputed wages is not possible for those years, we\
use all observations in 1994 and 1995.\
75\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 78 of 116]\
Figure B.3: Impact of Minimum Wages on Missing and Excess Jobs, and Employment Change\
Over time in the Washington Case Study\
8.4% MW inc. 10.3% MW inc.-0.05 0.00 0.05Excess and missing jobs relative to\
pre-treatment total employment\
1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004\
Year\
(a) Missing and excess jobs over time\
8.4% MW inc. 10.3% MW inc.-0.05 0.00 0.05Change in employment relative to pre-treatment total employment\
1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004\
Year\
(b) Employment change over time\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the evolution of missing jobs, excess jobs, and total employment change over time in\
Washington state, with data aggregated in $1 bins. In Panel (a), the red line represents the missing jobs\'97the\
di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual and counterfactual wage distribution between $5 and $8; while the light blue\
line shows the excess jobs that is the di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual and counterfactual frequency distributions\
for wages between $9 and $13. In Panel (b), we report the employment change over time (the sum of excess\
jobs and missing jobs). The counterfactual distribution is calculated by adding the average job change in the\
control states to the mean 1996-1998 job counts in Washington (see the text for details). The two vertical\
dashed black lines at 1998 and 1999 show the that the minimum wage was raised in 1999 and 2000 in two\
steps from from $7.51 to $9.18 (in 2016 values). The minimum wage was indexed to in\uc0\u64258 ation after 2001. We\
exclude all observations with imputed wages in the CPS in forming the counterfactual employment counts,\
except for years 1994 and 1995. Since determining imputed wages is not possible for those years, we use all\
observation in 1994 and 1995.\
76\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 79 of 116]\
Figure B.4: Employment by Wage Bins in Washington between 2010-2004 (Replication of\
FigureB.1using CPS data)\
.17 .18 .19 .2 .21 .22 .23\
Actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment ($26+ bin)0 .01 .02 .03 .04 .05 .06Actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 26+Wage bins in 2016$\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 17+\
Wage bins relative to $9 in 2016$\
Actual distribution\
Counterfactual distribution\
\uc0\u916 a =  0.047\
\uc0\u916 b = -0.035\
%\uc0\u916  affected employment =  0.108\
%\uc0\u916  affected wage =  0.083-0.04 -0.02 0.00 0.02 0.04Difference between actual and counterfactual employment count\
relative to the pre-treatment total employment5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 2526+Wage bins in 2016$\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins relative to $9 in 2016$\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure replicates Figure B.1that examine the e\u64256 ect of the 1999-2000 minimum wage change\
in Washington on the frequency distribution of wages (aggregated in $1 bins), normalized by the 1998\
level of employment in Washington. The minimum wage was raised from $7.51 to $9.18 (in 2016 values)\
and it was indexed by in\uc0\u64258 ation. Panel (a) shows the actual (purple solid bars) and counterfactual (red\
outlined bars) frequency wage distribution after the minimum wage increases in Washington. The actual\
distribution (post treatment) plots the average employment between 2000 and 2004 by wage-bin relative to\
the 1998 total employment in Washington using CPS data on hourly wages between 2000-2004 (instead of\
using administrative data as in Figure B.1. The coun terfactual distribution adds the average change in\
employment between 2000 and 2004 in states without any minimum wage change to the mean 1996-1998 job\
counts (see the text for details). The 26+ bin contains all workers earning above $26, and its values shown on\
the right y-axis. Panel (b) depicts the di\uc0\u64256 erence between the actual and the countefactual wage distribution.\
The blue bars shows the change in employment at each wage bin (relative to the 1998 total employment in\
Washington). The red line shows the overall employment changes up to that wage bin. The upper left panel\
shows the estimates on missing number of jobs between $5 and $8, /triangleb; on the excess number of jobs between\
$9 and $13,/trianglea, and on the estimated employment and wage e\uc0\u64256 ects.\
77\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 80 of 116]\
Online Appendix C\
Event-by-event analysis\
While the baseline estimates in this paper are an average e\uc0\u64256 ect across 138 events estimated\
by equation (1), our event-by-event analysis estimates separate treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects for each of\
the events. To do so, we \uc0\u64257 rst create event-speci\u64257 c annual state panel datasets using the same\
real wage bin-state-speci\uc0\u64257 c employment counts as before. Then we calculate event-speci\u64257 c\
estimates using separate regressions for each event.\
Each event h-speci\uc0\u64257 c dataset includes the treated state and all other clean control states\
for an 8-year panel by event time ( t=\uc0\u8722 3,...,4)with the minimum wage increase at t= 0.\
Clean controls are those without any non-trivial minimum wage increase within the 8-year\
event window. With these data we calculate event-speci\uc0\u64257 c per-capita state outcomes over\
timeYsth: missing jobs bsth, between the new minimum and $4.00 below; excess jobs asth,\
between the minimum and $4.00 above; total a\uc0\u64256 ected employment esth=asth+bsth; and\
upper tail jobs more than $4.00 above the new minimum. For each event, we have a similar\
regression equation to the one used in our baseline estimates\
Ysth=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 3\u945 \u964 hkI\u964 \
sth+\'b5sh+\uc0\u961 th+Wsth+usth, (C.6)\
where Wjshis an indicator that controls for other primary, federal, and small events whose\
5-year post-treatment periods take place within the data set h. (Wsth= 1for post-treatment\
periods of these events.) Just like our baseline estimates, we calculate the event-speci\uc0\u64257 c change\
in excess jobs above ( Daj), change in missing jobs below ( Dbh), and employment change\
(Deh=Dah+Dbh) relative to the \uc0\u64257 rst year prior to treatment. For instance, the change in\
the excess number of jobs is given by Dah=1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0Dah\u964 =1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0/summationtext4\
k=0\uc0\u945 h,\u964 \u8722 /summationtext4\
k=0\uc0\u945 h,\u8722 1\
EPOP \uc0\u8722 1.\
FigureC.1shows the resulting estimated employment changes for each event, along\
with 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals obtained according to the procedure proposed by Ferman\
and Pinto (forthcoming). Appropriate for a single treated unit, their procedure extends the\
cluster residual bootstrap by correcting for heteroskedasticity\'97an important issue given\
the very di\uc0\u64256 erent sample sizes across states in the CPS. Given the very small sample sizes\
for Washington D.C. in the CPS, we exclude these minimum wage increases from the\
event-by-event analysis, for a total of 130 events. The \uc0\u64257 gure shows estimates for missing,\
excess, and total employment changes, where \uc0\u64257 lled in markers represent statistically signi\u64257 cant\
employmentchangesatthe5percentlevel. Thereisclearevidenceofsizablebutheterogeneous\
bites across events: 83% (108) of the missing jobs estimates are negative, and 25% (32) of\
the events are statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 5 percent level. At the same time 21% (27) of\
the excess jobs estimates are statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant, while 78% (100) are positive in sign.\
Therefore, while there is considerable heterogeneity in the bite of the policy, the distribution\
of employment estimates is consistent with the sharp null of zero e\uc0\u64256 ect everywhere: only 7\
(or 5.3%) of events yield statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant overall employment changes: 1 is negative\
and 6 are positive, and the median estimate is very close to zero.\
We can also use the event-by-event estimates to assess whether the lack of leading e\uc0\u64256 ects\
and upper tail employment changes hold event-by-event, and not just on average. Figure\
78\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 81 of 116]\
C.2shows leading and upper tail employment changes for 129 events; here one event from\
Connecticut in 1981 is dropped because it lacks a third leading term. Only 5.4% (7) of the\
events experience a statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant upper tail e\u64256 ects at the 5 percent level, while\
7.7% (10) the events experience statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant leading e\u64256 ects. Overall, these results\
are reassuring as they show that the lack of upper tail or leading e\uc0\u64256 ects in aggregate is not\
driven by a mix of unusual positive and negative individual e\uc0\u64256 ects. Rather, our \u64257 ndings are\
consistent with the sharp null of zero upper tail and zero leading e\uc0\u64256 ects everywhere.\
We also stack all of the event-speci\uc0\u64257 c data to calculate an average e\u64256 ect across all the\
events using the a single set of treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects \u945 \u964 k\
Yhkst=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 3\u945 \u964 kI\u964 \
hst+\'b5hks+\uc0\u961 hkt+Whkst+uhkst. (C.7)\
This provides an alternative to our baseline panel speci\uc0\u64257 cation that uses a more stringent\
criteria for admissible control groups, and is not more robust to possible problems with a\
staggered treatment design in presence of heterogeneous treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects. In particular, by\
aligning events by event-time (and not calendar time), it is equivalent to a setting where\
the events happen all at once and are not staggered; this prevents negative weighting of\
some events that may occur with a staggered design (Abraham and Sun, 2018). Moreover,\
by dropping all states with any events within the 8 year event window, we further guard\
against bias due to heterogeneous treatment e\uc0\u64256 ects. Moving to the stacked-by-event approach\
(column 2 in Table C.1) continues to produce a sizable and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant positive\
wage e\uc0\u64256 ect, but an employment e\u64256 ect that is statistically indistinguishable from zero. The\
minimum wage employment elasticity using the stacked-by-event approach (column 2) is\
0.001 (s.e. 0.002) which is fairly similar to the estimate of 0.024 (0.25) in the baseline panel\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation (column 1). The own wage elasticity is 0.018 (s.e. 0.546) in column 2 as opposed\
to 0.411 (s.e., 0.430) in the baseline column 1; here the more stringent stacked-by-event\
approach is somewhat less precise, though it still rules out an own wage elasticity more\
negative than -0.88 at the 90% con\uc0\u64257 dence level. The time paths for missing jobs, excess jobs\
and employment are reported in Figure C.3; again these are quite similar to the baseline\
Figures3andA.4and show a sharp and persistent change in missing and excess jobs on the\
event date, and a \uc0\u64258 at employment time path before and after the event.\
In column (3) we consider the case were we manually average the 138 estimates where\
each event is weighted by population. The point estimates are very similar to column (2),\
providing further assurance against the problematic (e.g., negative) implicit weights in the\
panel estimate. Finally, in column (4) we further re\uc0\u64257 ne the sample by only considering events\
that have a full \uc0\u64257 ve year post-treatment sample (i.e., events that occurred on 2012q1 or\
earlier). The point estimates are quite close to column (2), even though, as expected, the\
standard errors are now somewhat larger. This shows that the small size of our estimates in\
columns (1) - (3) is not driven by a lack of a su\uc0\u64259 ciently long post-treatment period in some\
of the events.\
79\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 82 of 116]\
Figure C.1: Event-speci\uc0\u64257 c Excess Jobs Above, Missing Jobs Below, and Employment Change\
Estimates\
0102030405060708090100110120130Event\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2\
Actual estimate and the 95% CI\
(a) Missing jobs below ( Db)\
0102030405060708090100110120130Event\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2\
Actual estimate and the 95% CI (b) Excess jobs above ( Da)\
0102030405060708090100110120130Event\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2\
Actual estimate and the 95% CI\
(c) Employment change ( Da+Db)\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the event-speci\u64257 c point (square markers) and con\u64257 dence interval (gray horizontal\
bars) estimates for missing jobs below ( Db), excess jobs above ( Da), and employment change ( Da+Db). The\
point estimates are calculated using equation C.6, and the con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals are obtained according to\
the procedure proposed by Ferman and Pinto (forthcoming). The vertical gray dash line indicates the null\
hypothesis of no e\uc0\u64256 ect, and it is rejected with 95% con\u64257 dence if the con\u64257 dence intervals do not contain 0.\
There are 130 events (D.C. events are dropped due to the measurement error concerns). 44/130, 25/130, and\
7/130 events yield statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant estimates (\u64257 lled markers) for missing jobs below, excess jobs above,\
and employment change.\
80\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 83 of 116]\
Figure C.2: Leading estimates and upper tail falsi\uc0\u64257 cation tests for event-speci\u64257 c estimates\
0102030405060708090100110120130Event\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2\
Actual estimate and the 95% CI\
(a) Leading employment change ( Da\uc0\u8722 3+Db\u8722 3)\
0102030405060708090100110120130Event\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2\
Actual estimate and the 95% CI\
(b) Upper tail (/summationtext\uc0\u964 =4\
\uc0\u964 =0/summationtext\
k\uc0\u8805 5\u945 \u964 k\u8722 \u945 \u8722 1k\
EPOP \uc0\u8722 1)\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the event-speci\u64257 c point (square markers) and con\u64257 dence interval (gray horizontal\
bars) estimates for leading (Da\uc0\u8722 3+Db\u8722 3), and upper tail (/summationtext\u964 =4\
\uc0\u964 =0/summationtext\
k\uc0\u8805 5\u945 \u964 k\u8722 \u945 \u8722 1k\
EPOP \uc0\u8722 1)employment change.\
The point estimates are calculated using equation C.6, and the con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals are obtained according to\
the procedure proposed by Ferman and Pinto (forthcoming). The vertical gray dash line at 0 indicates the\
null hypothesis of no e\uc0\u64256 ect, and it is rejected with 95% con\u64257 dence if con\u64257 dence intervals do not contain 0.\
There are 129 events (D.C. events are dropped due to the measurement error concerns and the minimum\
wage event that takes place in Connecticut in 1981 does not have the third leading term.). 7/129, and 7/129\
events yield statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant estimates (\u64257 lled markers) for leading, and upper tail employment change.\
81\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 84 of 116]\
Figure C.3: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Missing and Excess Jobs, and Employment\
Over Time; Stacked Analysis Missing and Excess Jobs\
-.02 -.01 0 .01 .02 .03Excess and missing jobs relative to the pre-treatment total employment\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
(a) Evolution of the missing and excess jobs\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2Percentage change in employment of affected workers\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
(b) Evolution of the employment of the a\uc0\u64256 ected workers\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the main results from our stacked analysis (see equation 7) exploiting 138 state-level\
minimum wage changes between 1979-2016. Panel (a) shows the e\uc0\u64256 ect of a minimum wage increase on the\
missing jobs below the new minimum wage (blue line) and on the excess jobs at and slightly above it (red\
line) over time. The blue line shows the evolution of the number of jobs (relative to the total employment\
1 year before the treatment) between $4 below the new minimum wage and the new minimum wage ( Db);\
and the red lines show the number of jobs between the new minimum wage and $5 above it ( Da). Panel (b)\
shows the evolution of employment between $4 below the new minimum wage and $5 above it (relative to the\
total employment 1 year before the treatment), which is equal to the sum of missing jobs below and excess\
jobs at and slightly above the minimum wage, Db+Da. We also show the 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals based on\
standard errors that are clustered at the state level.\
82\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 85 of 116]\
Table C.1: Stacked Data Estimates\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.017*** -0.017 -0.015***\
(0.004) (0.002) (0.002) (0.003)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.021*** 0.017*** 0.019 0.015***\
(0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.068*** 0.048*** 0.060 0.042***\
(0.010) (0.012) (0.014) (0.013)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.028 0.001 0.022 -0.001\
(0.029) (0.026) (0.041) (0.030)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.024 0.001 0.019 -0.001\
(0.025) (0.022) (0.035) (0.024)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.411 0.018 0.367 -0.017\
(0.430) (0.546) (0.613) (0.713)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.086 0.086 .086 0.086\
%DMW 0.101 0.101 .101 0.108\
Number of events 138 138 138 98\
Number of observations 847,314 983,934 983,934 838,584\
Set of events Primary Primary PrimaryPrimary,\
until\
2012q1\
DataAll workers,\
state-by-\
wage-binAll workers,\
stackedAll workers,\
stackedAll workers,\
stacked\
Speci\uc0\u64257 cation BaselinePooled\
stackedManual\
averagingPooled\
stacked\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase based on the event study analysis (see\
equation 1) and alternative variants of stacked analysis (see equations 6 and 7) exploiting 138 state-level\
minimum wage changes between 1979 and 2016. The table reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment\
estimates on missing jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage, excess jobs at and up to $5 above it,\
employment and wages. The \uc0\u64257 rst column reproduces column (1) of Table 1 for comparison purposes.\
Column (2) uses equation 7. Column (3) uses equation 6 and manually averages each event-by-event\
estimates. Column (4) uses the same regression equation as column (2), but uses only events that have\
occurred on or before 2012q1 to ensure a full \uc0\u64257 ve year post-treatment sample. Robust standard errors\
in parentheses are clustered by event-by-state in columns (1), (2), and (4). In column (3), we employ\
the procedure proposed by Ferman and Pinto (forthcoming) to obtain the standard errors. Signi\uc0\u64257 cance\
levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
83\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 86 of 116]\
Online Appendix D\
Data Appendix\
The primary data set we use in the event study analysis is the individual-level NBER Merged\
Outgoing Rotation Group of the Current Population Survey for 1979-2016 (CPS). We use\
variables EARNHRE (hourly wage), EARNWKE (weekly earnings), and UHOURSE (usual\
hours) to construct our hourly wage variable. For the period after 1995q4, we exclude\
observations with imputed hourly wages (I25a>0) among those with positive EARNHRE\
values, and exclude observations for which usual weekly earnings or hours information is\
imputed (I25a>0 or I25d>0) among those with positive EARNWKE values. There is no\
information on the imputation between 1994q1 and 1995q3 so we exclude these observations\
entirely. For the years 1989-1993, we follow the methodology of Hirsch and Schumacher\
(2004) to determine imputed observations.\
The CPS is a survey, where only a subset of workers is interviewed each month; therefore,\
there is sampling error in the dataset. In addition, as we do not use observations with imputed\
hourly wages in most of our analysis, the employment counts of the raw CPS data are biased\
downwards. To reduce the sampling error and also address the undercounting due to dropping\
imputed observations, our primary sample combines the CPS wage densities with the true\
state-level employment counts from the QCEW ( E). Speci\uc0\u64257 cally, in the QCEW benchmarked\
CPS, the employment counts for a wage bin wis calculated as/hatwidestEw\
NQCEW\
=/hatwiderfwCPS\'d7E\
N, where\
/hatwiderfwCPSis the (discretized) wage density estimated using the CPS: \'88fwCPS=Prob (w\uc0\u8804 wage<\
w+ 0.25). We also do a similar benchmarking of NAICS-based industry-and-state-speci\uc0\u64257 c\
QCEW employment (between 1990 and 2016) when we conduct sectoral analysis.\
Inaddition, weusemicro-aggregatedadministrativedataonhourlywagesfromWashington\
state for the case study in Section B.5. This data was provided to us as counts of workers in\
(nominal) $0.05 bins between 1992 and 2016 by the state\'92s Employment Security Department.\
We convert this data into $0.25 (real 2016 USD) hourly wage bins for our analysis using\
the CPI-U-RS. We also use similar micro-aggregated administrative data from Minnesota\
and Oregon for conducting comparison of data quality and measurement error in Online\
Appendix E.\
Matched CPS\
The CPS outgoing rotation groups are structured so that an individual reports her wage\
twice, one year apart, in 4th and 8th sample months. We employ the longitudinal aspect of\
the CPS when separately estimating the impacts of the minimum wage on new entrant and\
incumbent workers. This requires matching two CPS \uc0\u64257 les. We exactly follow the procedure\
proposed by Madrian and Lefgren (2000), and use household id (HHID), household number\
(HHNUM), person line number in household (LINENO), month in sample (MINSAMP), and\
month and state variables to match observations in two consecutive CPS \uc0\u64257 les. We con\u64257 rm\
the validity of matches by evaluating reported sex, race, and age in the two surveys. If sex or\
race do not match, or if individual\'92s age decreases by more than 1 or increases by more than\
2, we declare them as \'93bad matches\'94 and exclude from the matched sample. Additionally,\
since matching is not possible from July to December in 1984 and 1985, from January to\
84\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 87 of 116]\
September in 1985 and 1986, from June to December in 1994 and 1995, or from January to\
August in 1995 and 1996, we exclude these periods. On average, 72% of the observations\
in the CPS are matched: around 25% of the individuals in are absent in the 8th sample\
month, while an additional 3% are dropped because they are bad matches. We determine\
the incumbency of individual from employment status information in the 4th sample month.\
Similar to our primary CPS sample, we drop observations with imputed wages in the 8th\
sample month. Overall, the number of worker-level observations is smaller in the matched\
sample because we only use the 8th sample month in the matched sample, as opposed to\
both 4th and 8th sample months in the baseline sample.\
Industry classi\uc0\u64257 cations\
Following MianandSu\uc0\u64257  (2014), weuseanindustryclassi\u64257 cationwithfourcategories(tradable,\
non-tradable, construction, and other) based on retail and world trade. According to the\
classi\uc0\u64257 cation, an industry is \'93tradable\'94 if the per worker import plus export value exceeds\
$10,000, or if the sum of import and export values of the NAICS 4-digit industry is greater\
than $500 million. The retail sector and restaurants compose \'93non-tradable\'94 industries,\
whereas the \'93construction\'94 industries are industries related to construction, land development\
and real estate. Industries that do not \uc0\u64257 t in either of these three categories are pooled and\
labeled as \'93other\'94. We merge the CPS with Mian and Su\uc0\u64257  (2014) industry classi\u64257 cation using\
the IND80 and IND02 variables in the CPS.\
85\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 88 of 116]\
Online Appendix E\
Comparison of Administrative Data to CPS\
In our event study analysis, we use the Current Population Survey (CPS), which provides\
information on wages for a large sample of individuals, after benchmarking to aggregate state-\
level employment counts in the QCEW. There is therefore sampling error in our estimated\
job counts in each wage bin. In this section we assess the accuracy of CPS based jobs counts\
by comparing administrative data on job counts from three states with reliable information\
on hourly wages (Minnesota, Oregon, and Washington).\
In Section E.1, we compare the performance of the raw CPS and the QCEW-benchmarked\
CPS in predicting the counts of workers earning less than $15 in the administrative data from\
Minnesota, Oregon and Washington. We show that counts from the QCEW-benchmarked\
CPS are much closer to the counts from the administrative data than those from the raw CPS:\
the mean squared prediction error is substantially smaller when we use QWEW-benchmarked\
CPS data. In Section E.2, we show that the wage distribution from the QCEW-benchmarked\
CPS closely matches the distribution from the administrative data from the three states. In\
particular, we show that the number of workers reporting earnings under the state minimum\
wage is similarly small in both the administrative data and the CPS, which is an important\
indication of the degree of misreporting in the CPS. In section E.3we implement structural\
estimation to further assess the importance of wage misreporting in the administrative data\
and in the QCEW-benchmarked CPS along the lines of Autor, Manning and Smith (2016).\
Our estimates show that the implied misreporting is of a similar magnitude in the two data\
sources. In section E.4we deconvolve the QCEW-benchmarked CPS using the estimated\
measurement error model of Autor, Manning and Smith (2016), and provide estimates using\
this measurement-error-corrected frequency distribution.\
E.1 Assessing the Accuracy of the Raw versus the QCEW- bench-\
marked CPS\
We compare the administrative data with the raw CPS, and the QCEW-benchmarked CPS.\
Because the CPS is a survey, it has substantially greater sampling error than the QCEW\
which is a near-census of all workers in a state. Also, since we are not using observations\
with imputed hourly wages in our data sets, state-level employment counts of the raw CPS\
data are biased downwards. To address both these problems, our primary sample combines\
the CPS wage distribution with state-level employment counts in the QCEW. We label the\
data with the QCEW adjustment as the \'93QCEW-benchmarked CPS\'94, and the raw CPS as\
\'93CPS-Raw.\'9442\
42We note that the QCEW and CPS have slightly di\uc0\u64256 erent employment concepts. The CPS measures\
employment in a reference week while the QCEW measures employment at any time in a quarter. So CPS\
employment may be slightly lower than QCEW since some people work only parts of a quarter. Therefore,\
the QCEW-benchmarked CPS is closer to the QCEW employment concept. At the same time, any such\
gap is likely picked up by the state and time \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. To con\u64257 rm this, we we implement an event study\
regression where the outcome variable is the gap between CPS and QCEW employment. Events are the\
same 138 state-level minimum wage changes between 1979-2016 that we use in our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation.\
Similar to our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation we include state and time \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects in the regression. The blue line\
86\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 89 of 116]\
First, we establish here that QCEW benchmarking of aggregate employment is likely\
to improve the accuracy of our counts by wage bin. The employment count for wage bin\
w,Ew, can be rewritten as the product of the (discretized) wage density, fw=Prob (w\uc0\u8804 \
wage<w + 0.25), and the employment , E, soEw=fw\'d7E. The raw CPS-based estimate\
for per-capita count is ECPS\
w =fCPS\
w\'d7ECPS. The QCEW benchmarked CPS uses the\
state-level employment counts from the QCEW which has no measurement error given that\
includes the near universe of workers; so formally, EQCEW\
w =fCPS\
w\'d7E. It follows that the\
mean squared prediction error ( MSPE) is lower for the QCEW benchmarked CPS than for\
the raw CPS, if the measurement errors for fCPS\
ware uncorrelated with ECPS. The latter\
condition holds if the source of the error is sampling.\
Since the bunching approach proposed here mainly focuses on job changes at the bottom\
of the wage distribution, we assess whether the raw CPS or the QCEW-benchmarked CPS\
does a better job in predicting the number of workers earning less than $15. For each\
quartert,we calculate the average per-capita numbers of workers earning less than $15 in\
the 20 subsequent quarters (i.e., between tandt+ 20); we also calculate the average for the 4\
preceding quarters (i.e., between tandt\uc0\u8722 4). Then, we subtract the latter from the former\
and we refer to this as the transformed counts. The employment changes in Table 1show the\
average employment changes in the 20 subsequent quarter after the minimum wage relative\
to the 4 preceding quarters. Therefore, the transformed counts are closely related to the\
employment estimates shown in Table 1.\
In \uc0\u64257 gure E.1panels (a) and (b), we show the scatterplot of the transformed counts (per\
capita) from the administrative data against those from QCEW-benchmarked CPS and the\
raw CPS, respectively. In addition to a visual depiction, we also regress the transformed\
administrative counts on the transformed CPS-Raw, and QCEW-benchmarked CPS counts.\
To assess the accuracy of the data, we use two measures: R2and the slope (\'88\uc0\u946 ). A perfect\
match between the CPS and the administrative data would yield R2=\'88\uc0\u946 = 1, or a zero\
mean-squared prediction error (MSPE). If the CPS correctly predicts the administrative\
counts on average, but each prediction possesses some error, then R2<1and \'88\uc0\u946 = 1. On\
the other hand, if there is a bias in the CPS counts, then \'88\uc0\u946 /negationslash=1. The QCEW-benchmarked\
counts are better predictors of the administrative counts than are the raw CPS counts: for\
the former, the estimated slope is 0.778 and the R2is 0.643. In contrast, the raw CPS has a\
larger bias ( \'88\uc0\u946 = 0.564) and variance ( R2= 0.322).\
In table E.1, we report the ratio of the MSPE using the raw CPS counts to the MSPE\
using the QCEW-benchmarked CPS. Besides reporting the MSPE for the transformed count\
(the 20 subsequent quarter average minus the 4 preceding quarter average) of workers under\
$15, we also report the MSPEs for underlying components. Namely, we calculate the MSPEs\
using counts of workers earnings less than $15/hour as well as counts of workers in each $0.25\
bins\'97each averaged over either 4 or 20 quarters. A MSPE ratio above one indicates that the\
QCEW-benchmarked CPS performs better in predicting the administrative data than the\
raw CPS. The table shows that this is indeed the case: QCEW-benchmarked CPS performs\
better in all cases, especially for the aggregated employment counts under $15/hour.\
shows the evolution of the gap in the employment rate (relative to the year before the treatment) between\
the CPS and QCEW. As Figure E.5shows, there is no systematic change in the gap between CPS-QCEW\
employment following treatment.\
87\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 90 of 116]\
E.2 Comparison of the Wage Distribution in the CPS and in the\
Administrative Data\
We assess the sampling and misreporting errors in the CPS by comparing the frequency\
distribution of hourly wages in the QCEW benchmarked CPS and in the administrative\
data. In Figure E.2we plot 5-year averaged per-capita employment counts in $3 bins relative\
to the minimum wage. We compare the distributions at this aggregation level, since our\
main estimates on excess and missing jobs in Table 1show 5 year employment changes\
in $3 to $5 bins relative to the minimum wage. The red squares show the distribution in\
the administrative data while the blue dots show the distribution calculated using QCEW-\
adjusted CPS. We report the wage distributions in each each states separately, as well as in\
the three states together.\
The distributions from the CPS closely match the distributions in the administrative data\
in all states and in all three \uc0\u64257 ve-years periods (2000-2004, 2005-2009, and 2010-2014). A\
similar number of jobs are present just below the minimum wage in the two data sources,\
albeit in some cases there are slightly more in the CPS (e.g. in WA 2005-2009). When\
we pool all three states, the CPS and the administrative data exhibit virtually the same\
distribution below the minimum wage. Note that in all three of these states, there is no\
separate tipped minimum wage, and nearly all workers are covered by the state minimum\
wage laws. Therefore, the presence of jobs paying below the minimum wage may re\uc0\u64258 ect\
misreporting. If this is the case, then Figure E.2suggests that the extent of misreporting is\
quite similar in the CPS and in the administrative data. We formally test this in the next\
section. At the same time, we should point out that some of the sub-minimum wage jobs may\
re\uc0\u64258 ect true under-payment. Either way, it is encouraging that the extent of sub-minimum\
wage jobs in the CPS is very similar to what is found in high quality administrative wage\
data.\
The \uc0\u64257 gures also highlight that the [0,3) bin\'97which includes workers at and up to $3 above\
the minimum wage\'97contains a somewhat larger number of workers in the administrative\
data than in the CPS for Washington state; however, for Oregon and Minnesota, the CPS\
closely matches the number of workers in that bin. As a result, when we pool all three states\
together, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the CPS tends to underestimate the number of jobs at and slightly\
above the minimum wage. However, this di\uc0\u64256 erence is quite stable over time, as further\
shown below in Figure E.3; as a result, our di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erence estimates are unlikely to\
be a\uc0\u64256 ected by this gap between the two counts. Finally, the CPS tends to place slightly\
more workers in the middle-income bin ([ MW +$6,MW +$21)), and fewer workers at the\
high-income bin ( [MW +$21,\uc0\u8734 )).\
FigureE.3plots the time paths of the number of jobs below the minimum wage [ MW\uc0\u8722 \
$5,MW ), and jobs at and above the minimum wage ([ MW,MW +$5)relative to the state-\
level population from both the administrative data and the CPS. Consistent with the previous\
\uc0\u64257 ndings, the job counts below and above in both of the data sets follow very similar paths.\
When we pool the data across all three states, the evolution of the jobs below the minimum\
wage lines up perfectly across the two series. The level of jobs at and slightly above the\
minimum wage is slightly higher in the CPS, but again, the di\uc0\u64256 erences are quite stable over\
time. As a result, the di\uc0\u64256 erence-in-di\u64256 erence estimator implemented in this paper is unlikely\
to be a\uc0\u64256 ected by the small discrepancy between the administrative and the CPS data.\
88\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 91 of 116]\
E.3 Assessment of Misreporting of Wages Using Structural Esti-\
mation\
To compare the potential measurement error in the CPS and in the administrative data\
for these states, we also implement a structural estimation approach developed by Autor,\
Manning and Smith (2016). Following Autor, Manning and Smith (2016), we assume that in\
the absence of the minimum wage, both the observed and the true latent wage distributions\
are log-normal.43A portion ( \uc0\u947 )of the workers report their wages correctly, while others\
report it with some error. In the absence of a minimum wage, the observed (log) wage can\
be written as\
v\uc0\u8727 =w\u8727 +D/epsilon1\
wherev\uc0\u8727 is the observed and w\u8727 is the true latent (log) wage of the worker that would prevail\
in the absence of a minimum wage. Dis a binary variable that is equal to 1 when the wage is\
misreported, and 0 otherwise. Therefore, P(D= 0) =\uc0\u947 measures the probability of reporting\
wages accurately. When the wage is misreported, the distribution of the (logged) error is\
again normal, with /epsilon1\uc0\u8764 N(0,1\u8722 \u961 2\
\uc0\u961 2), where\u961 2=cov(v\u8727 ,w\u8727 )\
var(v\uc0\u8727 ), re\u64258 ects the correlation between the\
observed and true latent distributions. Both parameters \uc0\u961 and\u947 determine how misreporting\
distorts the observed wage distribution. Here 1\uc0\u8722 \u947 measures the rate of misreporting, while\
1\uc0\u8722 \u961 2\
\uc0\u961 2measures the variance of the error conditional on misreporting.\
We can summarize the overall importance of misreporting by comparing the standard\
deviation of the true latent distribution ( \uc0\u963 w)and the observed latent distribution ( \u963 ).When\
\uc0\u963 w\
\uc0\u963 = 1,misreporting does not a\u64256 ect the dispersion in observed wages. But when\u963 w\
\uc0\u963 = 0.5,\
say, misreporting causes the observed wage distribution\'92s standard deviation to be twice as\
large that it would if wages were always accurately reported. Autor, Manning and Smith\
(2016) notes that the ratio can be approximated by \uc0\u961 and\u947 as follows:\
\uc0\u963 w\
\uc0\u963 =\u947 +\u961 (1\u8722 \u947 )\
We estimate the model parameters \uc0\u947 and\u961 for both the administrative data and the CPS.\
One additional complication in the administrative data is that sometimes small rounding\
errors in hours can shift a portion of workers to the wage bin below the MW; this will tend to\
over-state the measurement error in the administrative data (at least in terms of estimating\
1\uc0\u8722 \u947 ).For this reason, we present two sets of estimates. First we keep the data as is by using\
wage bins relative to the minimum wage, [MW,MW +$0.15). Second, we additionally show\
estimates using re-centered $0.25 wage bins around the minimum wage. The re-centered\
$0.25 bin that includes the minimum wage is now de\uc0\u64257 ned as [MW\u8722 $0.10,MW +$0.15).\
The subsequent re-centered bins are de\uc0\u64257 ned as [MW +$0.15,MW +$0.40), etc., while the\
preceding bins are de\uc0\u64257 ned as [MW\u8722 $0.35,MW\u8722 $0.10), etc.\
Our analysis covers the 1990-2015 period for Washington, and the 1998-2015 period for\
Minnesota and Oregon: the start dates re\uc0\u64258 ect the earliest years the administrative data are\
43The latent wage distribution refers to the distribution that would prevail in the absence of a minimum\
wage. The wage is called \'93observed\'94 when it re\uc0\u64258 ects both the true value as well as the reporting error.\
Note, however, that the \'93latent observed\'94 wage distribution is only observed in practice in the absence of a\
minimum wage.\
89\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 92 of 116]\
available for each state. Since none of these three states allow tip credits, we do not drop\
tipped workers from our sample, and use all workers in our analysis.\
TableE.2reports the misreporting rate (1\uc0\u8722 \u947 ), the variance of the error term, and the\
ratio of the true and observed standard deviations. In panel A, where we re-center the wage\
bins, and \uc0\u64257 nd that the misreporting rate 1\u8722 \u947 is slightly smaller in the CPS (.23) than in the\
administrative data (0.28).44However, conditional on misreporting, the variance of the errors/parenleftbigg\
1\uc0\u8722 \u961 2\
\uc0\u961 2/parenrightbigg\
is somewhat larger in the CPS ( 1.46) than in the administrative data (1.25). Putting\
these two parts together, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the ratios of the true to observed standard deviations\
\uc0\u963 w\
\uc0\u963 are quite similar in the two datasets: 0.92 in the CPS and 0.91 in the administrative\
data. In panel B, where we use un-centered wage bins, the CPS estimates are virtually\
unchanged. However, due to the rounding errors in hours in the administrative data, the\
estimated misreporting rate (1- \uc0\u947 ) increases while the variance of the error conditional on\
misreporting/parenleftbigg\
1\uc0\u8722 \u961 2\
\uc0\u961 2/parenrightbigg\
falls. Overall, the ratio of the true and observed standard deviations\
for administrative data in panel B (0.90) remains very similar to those reported in panel A\
(0.91) and to the CPS estimates (0.92).\
Overall, the structural estimation results suggest that the extent to which there is misre-\
porting of wages, they are of similar magnitude in the CPS and in high quality administrative\
wage data. This provides additional support for the validity of our bunching estimates using\
CPS data.\
E.4 Estimates using deconvolved, measurement-error corrected\
CPS-ORG\
In the previous section, we obtained the functional form of the distribution of misreporting\
error (D/epsilon1) in the CPS-ORG. Given an empirical distribution of the observed noisy wage\
v=w+D/epsilon1, and an empirical distribution of the error D/epsilon1, we can obtain an estimated\
distribution of the the error-free wage, w,using the non-parametric deconvolution procedure\
proposed by Comte and Lacour (2011). Given an empirical sample of errors D/epsilon1drawn from\
an arbitrary distribution (estimated in the previous section), and the sample of noisy observed\
wagesv,theprocedurerecoversameasurementerrorcorrecteddistribution. Thedeconvolution\
is based on the insight that the inverse-Fourier transform of the unknown distribution of wis a\
function of the estimable characteristic functions of vandD/epsilon1. Estimation is performed using\
penalized deconvolution contrasts and data-driven adaptive model-selection, and implemented\
using the R package deamer.45\
FigureE.4plots the wage distributions of the CPS-ORG and the measurement error\
corrected (deconvolved) CPS-ORG (MEC-CPS) in $1 bins relative to the minimum wage\
averaged over time and states. We make three observations. First, the share of jobs paying\
below the current minimum wage is smaller in CPS-MEC. This is expected, since the Autor,\
44The CPS estimate is largely in line with Autor, Manning and Smith (2016) who estimate the misreporting\
rate around 20% between 1979 and 2012 using 50 states.\
45We separately estimate the distribution of true wages for each state-by-quarter using the same distribution\
function for the measurement error. Estimating annual distribution functions for the error following Autor et\
al.(2016) produces virtually the same results.\
90\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 93 of 116]\
Manning and Smith (2016) approach uses the share below the minimum wage to estimate\
the extent of measurement error; so a successful reduction in measurement error should\
reduce the share earning below the minimum. Numerically, while 2.67% of the workers report\
working below the minimum wage in the CPS, after the measurement error correction it\
decreases to 1.57%. Second, the share of workers in the dollar bin of the current minimum\
wage are similar in both samples, suggesting that the raw CPS performs relatively well in\
reporting the share of workers at or up to $0.99 above the minimum. Third, individuals in\
the raw CPS are more likely to report their wages as $17 higher than the current minimum\
wage. The CPS-MEC, on the other hand, \uc0\u64257 nd that there are more individuals with hourly\
wages between $1 and $16.99 above the minimum after taking the misreporting error into\
account.\
In Table E.3, we compare the baseline estimates with those obtained using the deconvolved\
data. Column (1) reproduces the baseline estimates reported in Table 1column (1). Column\
(2) reports the results using deconvolved data46The missing and excess jobs estimates are\
quite similar across columns 1 and 2. The baseline missing jobs estimate of \uc0\u8722 0.018 (s.e.0.004)\
in column 1 is very similar to the measurement error corrected estimate of -0.017(s.e. 0.004) in\
column 2. The baseline excess jobs estimates for both columns 1 and 2 are 0.021 (s.e.0.003).\
This corroborates our argument that the employment estimates are not substantially a\uc0\u64256 ected\
by measurement error in reported wages. While the baseline employment elasticity with\
respect to the minimum wage is 0.028 (s.e. 0.029) in column 1, it is 0.037 (s.e. 0.031) after\
measurement error correction in column 2. The wage e\uc0\u64256 ect estimates are also quite similar\
when we use the deconvolved data. The baseline percentage change in a\uc0\u64256 ected wage is\
0.068 (s.e.0.010)in column 1, whereas it is 0.075 (s.e.0.012)in column using deconvolved\
data. Overall, these \uc0\u64257 ndings underscore that our results are quite robust to the presence of\
misreporting error in wages..\
46The deconvolved data uses a slightly di\uc0\u64256 erent sample that excludes the quarters of events due to the\
existence of two spikes in those periods. By assumption, the latent wage distribution is log-normal and\
observed wage distribution can only have one mass point due to the minimum wage. However, if there is\
a minimum wage event in the quarter, then it is likely that observed wage distribution will have two mass\
points. In those cases, the deconvolution procedure does not perform well. However, in practice the estimates\
including the quarter of events are very similar (results not reported).\
91\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 94 of 116]\
Figure E.1: Comparison of Administrative with QCEW-benchmarked CPS, and CPS-Raw\
Counts of Workers Earning less than $15\
R2 = 0.643\
Slope = 0.778-0.10 -0.05 0.05 0.10 0Admin data\
-0.10 -0.05 0.05 0.10 0\
QCEW-benchmarked CPS\
Fitted line 45-degree line\
(a) Administrative data against QCEW-benchmarked CPS\
R2 = 0.322\
Slope = 0.564-0.10 -0.05 0.05 0.10 0Administrative data\
-0.10 -0.05 0.05 0.10 0\
CPS-Raw\
Fitted line 45-degree line\
(b) Administrative data against CPS-Raw\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure plots per-capita counts of workers earning less than $15 in administrative data against\
QCEW-benchmarked CPS in panel A, and CPS-Raw in panel B. To construct a measure that is comparable\
to the baseline employment estimate, we transform the counts, and subtract the average number of workers\
earning less than $15 (per capita) in the 4 preceding quarters from that in the 20 subsequent quarters. The\
blue circles indicate each observation, the red straight line the \uc0\u64257 tted line, and the black dash line the 45-degree\
line. We report the estimated R2and slope from a simple linear regression in the box.\
92\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 95 of 116]\
Figure E.2: Frequency Distributions in the Administrative and CPS data\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminWA, 2000-2004\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminMN, 2000-2004\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminWA, 2005-2009\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminMN, 2005-2009\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminWA, 2010-2014\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminMN, 2010-2014\
93\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 96 of 116]\
Figure cont\'92d: Frequency Distributions in the Administrative and CPS data\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, 2000-2004\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, MN, WA; 2000-2004\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, 2005-2009\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, MN, WA; 2005-2009\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, 2010-2014\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
<-6 [-6, -3) [-3, 0) [0, 3) [3, 6) [6, 9) [9, 12) [12, 15) [15, 18) [18, 21) 21+\
Wage bins relative to the MW\
CPS AdminOR, MN, WA; 2010-2014\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure plots 5-year averaged per-capita administrative and QCEW-benchmarked CPS employment\
counts of Washington, Minnesota, Oregon, and the three states combined from 2000 to 2014 in $3 bins\
relative to the minimum wage. The red squares indicate the administrative data, and the blue circles the\
QCEW-benchmarked CPS counts.\
94\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 97 of 116]\
Figure E.3: Comparing Administrative and CPS data; Time path\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015\
Year\
Admin - at & above CPS - at & above\
Admin - below CPS - belowWA\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2015\
Year\
Admin - at & above CPS - at & above\
Admin - below CPS - belowMN\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
1995 2000 2005 2010 2015\
Year\
Admin - at & above CPS - at & above\
Admin - below CPS - belowOR\
0 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20Employment counts per capita\
1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2015\
Year\
Admin - at & above CPS - at & above\
Admin - below CPS - belowOR & WA & MN\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure plots the time paths of the number of jobs below the minimum wage [ MW\u8722 $5,MW ),\
and jobs at and above the minimum wage ([ MW,MW +$5)relative to the state-level population from both\
the administrative data and the CPS in three states (MN, OR, WA) separately, and all together.\
95\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 98 of 116]\
Figure E.4: Wage Distributions in the CPS and the Measurement Error Corrected CPS\
0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30\
-4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 1617+\
Wage bins in $ relative to the MW\
CPS Measurement error corrected CPS\
Notes: This \uc0\u64257 gure plots the national wage distributions of the CPS and measurement error corrected CPS\
combined from 1979 to 2016 in $1 bins relative to the minimum wage. The measurement error correction\
process uses the estimates in Table E.2, and the procedure described in Comte and Lacour (2011). The red\
squares indicate the share of workforce in the particular wage bin in the measurement error corrected CPS\
data, and the blue circles in the raw CPS.\
96\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 99 of 116]\
Figure E.5: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Gap in Employment Between QCEW and\
CPS\
-0.04 -0.03 -0.02 -0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0Employment rate difference between QCEW and CPS-ORG\
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4\
Years relative to the minimum wage change\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the gap in employment rate between QCEW\
and CPS. In our event study analysis we use QCEW-benchmarked employment. The CPS and the QCEW\
have somewhat di\uc0\u64256 erent employment concepts: the CPS asks about employment in a reference week, while\
the QCEW measures any employment during the quarter. To alleviate the concern that the di\uc0\u64256 erences in\
concepts has an e\uc0\u64256 ect on our estimates, we implement an event study regression where the outcome variable\
is the gap between CPS and QCEW employment. Events are the same 138 state-level minimum wage changes\
between 1979-2016 that we use in our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation. Similar to our benchmark speci\u64257 cation we\
include state and time \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects in the regression. The blue line shows the evolution of the gap in the\
employment rate (relative to the year before the treatment) between the CPS and QCEW. We also show the\
95% con\uc0\u64257 dence interval based on standard errors that are clustered at the state level.\
97\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 100 of 116]\
Table E.1: MSPE Ratios of CPS-Raw to QCEW-Adjusted CPS\
Data structureMSPE ratio:\
Raw/Benchmarked\
Employment count by $0.25 bins, averaged across 4 quarters 1.637\
Employment count by $0.25 bins, averaged across 20 quarters 3.875\
Employment count under $15, averaged across 4 quarters 7.212\
Employment count under $15, averaged across 20 quarters 7.394\
Transformed employment count under $15: average of 20\
subsequent quarters minus the average of 4 preceding quarters2.141\
Notes.This table reports estimated mean squared prediction error (MSPE) ratios of the raw\
CPS to the QCEW-benchmarked CPS. For each dataset (raw and QCEW-benchmarked), the\
MSPE comes from predicting the (per-capita) administrative counts with the CPS based ones.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst two lines report the results from state-by-quarter-by-25-cent-wage-bin aggregated, and\
the last three lines state-by-quarter aggregated data. The transformed count is designed to be\
comparable to our baseline employment estimates, which compares employment in the 20 quarter\
following an event to the 4 quarter prior to the event. In all cases, we only consider wage bins\
under $15/hour in real, 2016$.\
98\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 101 of 116]\
Table E.2: Structural Estimation of the Autor, Manning and Smith (2016) Model of Mea-\
surement Error in Wages: Evidence from CPS and Administrative Data\
DatasetMisreporting rate\
1-\uc0\u947 Conditional error variance\
1-\uc0\u961 2\
\uc0\u961 2Ratio of std. deviations of true\
to observed latent distribution\
\uc0\u963 w\
\uc0\u963 \
A. Re-centered $0.25 wage bins\
CPS 0.232 1.462 0.916\
Administrative data 0.277 1.251 0.908\
B. $0.25 wage bins\
CPS 0.218 1.484 0.920\
Administrative data 0.343 1.076 0.895\
Notes.We assess the misreporting in the CPS and in the administrative data by implementing Autor et al. (2016).\
To alleviate the e\uc0\u64256 ect of rounding of hours worked information in the administrative data we re-center the $0.25\
wage bins around the minimum wage in Panel A, while in Panel B we report estimates using wage bins that are\
not re-centered around the minimum wage. This latter is what we use in our main analysis. We report 1- \uc0\u947 , the\
misreporting rate, in Column 1; (1\uc0\u8722 \u961 2)/\u961 2, the variance of the error conditional on misreporting in Column 2;\
and the ratio of the standard deviation of the true latent distribution (w) and the observed latent distribution in\
Column 3.\
99\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 102 of 116]\
Table E.3: Impact of Minimum Wages on Employment and Wages Using Deconvolved Data\
(1)\
(2)\
Missing\
jobs below new MW ( Db) -0.018*** -0.017***\
(0.004) (0.004)\
Excess jobs above new MW ( Da) 0.021*** 0.021***\
(0.003) (0.003)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected wages 0.068*** 0.075***\
(0.010) (0.012)\
%Da\uc0\u64256 ected employment 0.028 0.046\
(0.029) (0.038)\
Employment elasticity w.r.t. MW 0.024 0.037\
(0.025) (0.031)\
Emp. elasticity w.r.t. a\uc0\u64256 ected wage 0.411 0.613\
(0.430) (0.502)\
Jobs below new MW ( b\'961)\
0.086 0.082\
%DMW 0.101 0.101\
Number of events 138 138\
Number of observations 847,314 831,285\
Sample\
Measuremen\
t error corrected Y\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ects of a minimum wage increase\
based on the event study analysis (see equation 1) exploiting 138\
state-level minimum wage changes between 1979 and 2016. The ta-\
ble reports \uc0\u64257 ve year averaged post-treatment estimates on missing\
jobs up to $4 below the new minimum wage, excess jobs at and up\
to $5 above it, employment and wages. Column (1) reproduces the\
baseline estimates in Table 1 column (1). Column (2) estimates\
the same parameters, but uses the data deconvolved according to\
the procedure proposed by Comte and Lacour (2011). In column\
(2), we also exclude the quarters of events due to the existence of\
two spikes in those periods, as explained in footnote 46. To im-\
plement the procedure, we rely on the estimates in Table E.2. All\
speci\uc0\u64257 cations include wage-bin-by-state and wage-bin-by period\
\uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. Regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated\
population. Standard errors in parentheses are clustered by state;\
signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
Line-by-line description.The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows report the change in\
number of missing jobs below the new minimum wage ( Db), and\
excess jobs above the new minimum wage ( Da) relative to the pre-\
treatment total employment. The third row, the percentage change\
in average wages in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins, (% DW), is calculated using\
equation 2in Section 2.2. The fourth row, percentage change in\
employment in the a\uc0\u64256 ected bins is calculated by dividing change\
in employment by jobs below the new minimum wage (Da+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1).\
The \uc0\u64257 fth row, employment elasticity with respect to the minimum\
wage is calculated asDa+Db\
%DM\
Wwhereas the sixth row, employment\
elasticity with respect to the wage, reports1\
%DWDa+Db\
\'afb\uc0\u8722 1. The line\
on the number of observations shows the number of quarter-bin\
cells used for estimation, while the number of workers refers to the\
underlying CPS sample used to calculate job counts in these cells.\
100\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 103 of 116]\
Online Appendix F\
Bias in the Classic Two-Way Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects Panel Regres-\
sion with Log Minimum Wage\
This Appendix establishes that the classic two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects panel regression on log\
minimum wage provides biased estimates of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ect of the policy. When\
implemented over the same time period as our primary speci\uc0\u64257 cation, the two-way \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects\
estimator with log minimum wage (TWFE-logMW) obtains a large negative estimate for\
overall employment changes, in contrast to the small positive and statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant\
estimate of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ect for low-wage workers obtained by the \u64257 rst di\u64256 erence (FD)\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation, and the event based speci\u64257 cations (EB). In the main text, we showed that\
the negative employment changes in the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation mainly comes from\
the employment changes at the upper tail of the wage distribution, which suggests that the\
aggregate employment changes are unlikely to re\uc0\u64258 ect the causal e\u64256 ect of minimum wages.\
Furthermore, this highlights how understanding the sources of disemployment throughout the\
wage distribution can serve as an useful tool for model selection. In this section we document\
additional problems with the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation and provide further evidence to\
understand the discrepancy between TWFE-logMW and the event study based benchmark\
(EB) estimates.\
We begin our analysis by assessing the contribution of various factors that drive the\
di\uc0\u64256 erences in estimates between our benchmark EB and the TWFE-logMW speci\u64257 cations.\
We establish that the di\uc0\u64256 erences between the two estimates is not driven by using discrete\
versus continuous treatment, or any artifact of binning the wages. Table F.1compares the\
employment elasticities with respect to the minimum wage of the benchmark EB (see Table 1\
and Figure 2) and the TWFE-logMW estimator (Figure 6), as well as several intermediate\
forms that bridge the two speci\uc0\u64257 cations. Column 1 reproduces our baseline estimate of the\
policy elasticity which considers employment changes locally within a $9 window around the\
new minimum wage using the regression speci\uc0\u64257 cation in equation 1. In Column 2 we use the\
event study design, but estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect on overall, below $15, and above $15 employment\
counts per capita using aggregated state-level treatment variation. The resulting employment\
elasticity of 0.027 for the below $15 group is very similar to our baseline employment elasticity.\
Reassuringly, we see little employment change for higher wage workers earning above $15.\
The resulting overall employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage, 0.016, is\
very close to our benchmark estimate. In column 2 we also report results for the 3 Card\
and Krueger (CK) probability groups using demographic predictors (see Section 3.1for the\
details). Here too, all of the point estimates are small, and in particular there is little change\
in employment for those workers predicted to have higher wages. There is also no sizable\
disemployment e\uc0\u64256 ect for predicted low-wage and and middle-wage groups, which capture\
most minimum wage workers,\
The EB estimator uses a discrete, binary indicator for minimum wage changes, while the\
TWFE-logMW uses continuous treatment. In Column 3 and 4 we provide intermediate results\
that continue to use the 8-year event windows, but use a continuous treatment measure. In\
particular, we multiply the wage-bin-state-speci\uc0\u64257 c treatment indicators in EB by the change\
in log minimum wage; column 3 uses the $9 window around the minimum wage, while column\
101\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 104 of 116]\
4 simply considers employment under $15, employment above $15, overall employment, and\
the three CK groups. This latter EB-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation can be written as follows:\
Est\
Nst=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 3\u946 \u964 I\u964 \
st/trianglelogMWs,t\uc0\u8722 \u964  +\'b5s+\u961 t+ust (F.1)\
As in our benchmark speci\uc0\u64257 cation, we report the 5 year averages in employment change from\
the year prior to treatment:1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0\u946 \u964 \u8722 \u946 \u8722 1. We \u64257 nd that moving from the discrete to\
continuous treatment measure has little e\uc0\u64256 ect on the estimated employment elasticity.\
In contrast, Column 5 estimates a TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation of the following form:\
Est\
Nst=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 2\u945 \u964 logMWs,t\u8722 \u964  +\'b5s+\u961 t+ust (F.2)\
The cumulative responses can be calculated as \uc0\u946 \u964 =/summationtext\u964 \
j=\uc0\u8722 3\u945 jby successively summing\
the coe\uc0\u64259 cients. Again, we report the 5 year averages in employment change from the year\
prior to treatment:1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0\u946 \u964 \u8722 \u946 \u8722 1.47The TWFE-logMW estimate is the same as what is\
reported in Figure 6. The overall employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage\
is large, negative, and statistically distinguishable from zero (-0.089., s.e. 0.025). In Figure\
F.1we also show the e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution by the Card and\
Krueger (CK) probability groups. The negative overall e\uc0\u64256 ect in the TWFE-logMW model is\
concentrated on the \'93wrong\'94 workers: namely, the large employment change occurs for wage\
bins over $15 per hour, and there is a large employment response for only the workers least\
demographically likely to be earning near the minimum wage. The TWFE-logMW estimate\
is driven entirely by high wage employment or employment likely to be high wage.\
The main di\uc0\u64256 erence between equation F.1andF.2is that the EB-logMW focuses on\
employment changes within the 8-year event window around the minimum wage changes,\
while the TWFE estimates are more sensitive to underlying long-term trends or persistent\
shocks to employment, including those that are far away from the actual treatment events.\
We additionally estimate a \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erence (FD) speci\u64257 cation:\
/triangleEst\
Nst=4/summationdisplay\
\uc0\u964 =\u8722 3\u945 \u964 /trianglelogMW\u964 \
s,t\uc0\u8722 \u964  +\'b5s+\u961 t+ust (F.3)\
The cumulative responses can be calculated as \uc0\u946 \u964 =/summationtext\u964 \
j=\uc0\u8722 3\u945 jby successively summing\
the coe\uc0\u64259 cients. Again, we report the 5 year averages in employment change from the year\
prior to treatment:1\
5/summationtext4\
\uc0\u964 =0\u946 \u964 \u8722 \u946 \u8722 1. This latter speci\u64257 cation is consistent under the same\
strict exogeneity assumptions as the TWFE estimated in levels; however, the small sample\
47Because of this normalization, we report the \'933rd year or earlier\'94 estimate as \uc0\u8722 \u946 \u8722 1,even though there\
are 2 actual leads in the regression. This 3rd lead is analogous to the 5th lag, which refers to estimates the\
\'935th year or later;\'94 both of these are \'93binned up\'94 and represent estimates at the end point or outside of the\
event window. Since we report estimates for 8 di\uc0\u64256 erent event dates, we refer to this speci\u64257 cation as having\
a 8-year event window. This is slightly di\uc0\u64256 erent from the EB speci\u64257 cation where the coe\u64259 cient estimates\
are relative to all observations outside of the event window (before and after); this is why a 8-year event\
window in that speci\uc0\u64257 cation requires estimating 3 leads and 4 lags. In practice, however, the inclusion of an\
additional lead in the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation makes very little di\u64256 erence.\
102\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 105 of 116]\
properties di\uc0\u64256 er substantially when the number of units ( N) is small (Wooldridge, 2010).\
Our sample has a relatively small Nwith 51 states and DC, and we have an outcome variable\
that is highly persistent (the raw autocorrelation in state EPOP is 0.97; conditional on state\
and year \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects it is 0.86). This opens up the possibility that small sample biases may\
be quite di\uc0\u64256 erent for the TWFE-logMW model estimated in levels than the FD speci\u64257 cation.\
FigureA.10shows that the impact of minimum wages on the wage distribution di\uc0\u64256 ers\
considerably in the \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects and \u64257 rst di\u64256 erence speci\u64257 cations. Panel (a) and (c) reports\
pre-reform e\uc0\u64256 ects. We do not expect the minimum wage changes to have an e\u64256 ect on the\
wage distribution one year before the minimum wage was increased. This is more or less the\
case in the \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erence speci\u64257 cations; however, in the \u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cations there are\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant changes in the wage distribution even before the minimum wage was raised. This\
suggests that the \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect results are likely to re\u64258 ect pre-existing trends and not the only\
the causal e\uc0\u64256 ect of the minimum wage. Panels (b) and (d) report the post reform e\u64256 ects.\
As we see in the main text, the drop in overall employment in the \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ect speci\u64257 cation\
is driven by changes in the upper part of the wage distribution. Contrary to that, the \uc0\u64257 rst\
di\uc0\u64256 erence speci\u64257 cations shows more muted employment responses in the upper tail of the\
wage distribution, and there is no indication for signi\uc0\u64257 cant disemployment e\u64256 ects overall.\
TableF.2shows the fragility of the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation by using di\u64256 erent methods\
of controlling for long-term trends and persistent shocks to employment confounded with\
minimum wage increases. Column 1 reports the EB-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation, whose event\
window by de\uc0\u64257 nition minimizes the in\u64258 uence of long-term trends; as a result, the estimated\
employment elasticity with respect to the minimum wage is small, 0.008. Column 2 reports\
small employment e\uc0\u64256 ects using a \u64257 rst-di\u64256 erenced speci\u64257 cation, which by focusing on higher-\
frequency variation reduces the role of long-term trends and persistent shocks.\
Columns3through6ofTable F.2reporttheresultsoftheTWFE-logMWspeci\uc0\u64257 cationwith\
various control sets. Column 3 repeats for reference the baseline TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation\
with no additional controls. Column 4 shows that simply controlling for long-term trends\
with state-speci\uc0\u64257 c linear trend terms shrinks the overall employment e\u64256 ect to close to zero.\
Column 5 instead adds average major industry and broad occupation shares from 1979-1980\
(interacted with time periods) to the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation. These shares account for\
shocks to upper tail employment that are predicted by historical industrial/occupational\
patterns in the state. The employment estimate in column 5 is also close to zero and not\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant.\
In column (6), we control for partisan leanings by including a variable that captures\
state-level di\uc0\u64256 erences in the presidential vote share of two major party candidates. This\
variable accounts for that state-level political leanings might a\uc0\u64256 ect both the minimum wage\
and employment in ways that are unrelated to each other (Wursten, 2017). In this case, the\
partisan voting index decreases the magnitude of the overall employment estimate by 70%,\
from -0.089 in column (3) to -0.027 in column (6). Overall, Table F.1highlights the fragility\
of the two-way \uc0\u64257 xed estimate suggesting a large overall employment e\u64256 ect. Allowing for\
richer controls for time-varying heterogeneity produces results that are very similar to the\
baseline estimates.\
FigureF.3panel (a) shows another problem with the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation. This\
\uc0\u64257 gure plots the time path of employment elasticities with respect to the minimum wage\
for the TWFE-logMW. Since increases in nominal minimum wages, log(MW ), are always\
103\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 106 of 116]\
permanent, the last lag in the distributed lag model re\uc0\u64258 ects the \'93long term e\u64256 ect\'94 - the\
weighted average of e\uc0\u64256 ect at or after 4 years following a minimum wage increase. Moreover,\
since we normalize the estimates relative to the one year before the minimum wage, \uc0\u8722 \u945 \u8722 1\
measures the average employment occurring at 3 (or more) years prior to the minimum wage\
increase. The time path of the estimates shows that the TWFE-logMW estimator obtains a\
spurious, positive leading e\uc0\u64256 ect three (or more) years prior to the minimum wage increase.\
This shows that there were large employment reductions substantially prior to minimum wage\
increases, which can impart a bias on the treatment e\uc0\u64256 ect estimated using the TWFE-logMW\
model; moreover, because we are \'93binning up\'94 the leads and lags at -3 and +4, respectively,\
biases associated with these binned estimates can impart a bias on the estimated leads and\
lags, producing a spurious dynamic pattern even within the event window. These sizable\
and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant pre-treatment and post-treatment e\u64256 ects disappear once we add\
state-speci\uc0\u64257 c linear trends (see panel b).\
FigureF.4plots the time path of the employment elasticities separately for workers\
earning below $15 per hour (panel a) and above $15 per hour (panel b). The pattern of\
positive leads and the overall downward trend in employment preceding the minimum wage\
change comes from workers earning above $15 per hour. Lower wage workers, earning under\
$15/ hour, see little change in employment before or after the minimum wage increase.\
Finally, and importantly, Table F.3provides a evidence that demonstrates that the\
disemployment detected by the TWFE-logMW estimator is not caused by the minimum wage\
changes, but rather is driven entirely by employment shocks in the 1980\'92s (much earlier than\
the minimum wage changes). Column 1 uses the entire 1979-2016 period and shows the overall\
employment elasticities with respect to the minimum wage from the classic \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erence\
estimator (panel A), and \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erenced version (panel B). Panel C reports estimates from\
our events-based approach. As before, the TWFE-logMW estimator stands out in estimating\
a large, statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant overall employment decline due to minimum wage changes, in\
contrast to the \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erence. However, when we restrict the sample to the 1993-2016 period,\
the TWFE-logMW estimates become small and stastitically indistinguishable from zero,\
and are quite similar to the \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erence and event-based estimates. This is noteworthy\
because there were few state minimum wage changes prior to 1993. At the same time, we\
note that our event based estimates are highly robust to the choice of sample (panel C), as\
are estimates using the \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erenced speci\u64257 cation (panel B).\
Falsi\uc0\u64257 cation test. We also perform a falsi\u64257 cation exercise to demonstrate the bias in\
the TWFE-logMW estimates using the 1979-2016 sample. As the \uc0\u64257 rst step of the falsi\u64257 cation\
exercise, column 3 shows results using the full 1979-2016 sample of data, but excluding\
the ten states that experienced any minimum wage increases prior to 1993. The pattern\
of results remains the same in column 3, with the TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation estimating\
large employment declines due to the minimum wage. In columns 4 and 5, we decompose\
the estimate in column 3. In column 4, we use actual employment data until 1992 for the\
forty states that did not have any minimum wage event 1979-1992. For 1993-2016, we set\
employment outcomes to exactly 0 in all states. Because there were no minimum wage events\
prior to 1993 in this sample, and because the employment outcomes are exactly constant\
after 1993, the causal employment e\uc0\u64256 ect should be zero. Yet, column 4 shows that the\
TWFE-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation still estimates a sizable negative employment e\u64256 ect, in contrast\
104\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 107 of 116]\
to the \uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erenced and event-based speci\u64257 cations. Put di\u64256 erently, minimum wage events\
in 1993 and onwards appears to a\uc0\u64256 ect employment changes in 1979-1992. Column 5 does\
the opposite, and replaces all employment outcomes before 1993 with 0, and uses the actual\
employment rate in 1993-2016. In this case, variations in the variable of interest and the\
dependent variable take place in the same time period, and both the TWFE-logMW and the\
FD speci\uc0\u64257 cations indicate no disemployment e\u64256 ect. Finally, in column 6 we show that the\
spurious negative results in column 4 are not due to anticipation e\uc0\u64256 ects: here we consider\
states without minimum wage events prior to 1996 (instead of 1993 as in column 4); this\
reduces the sample to 39 instead of 40 states but the results are similar. Finally, in contrast\
to the TWFE-logMW case (panel A), our EB estimates (panel C) easily pass this falsi\uc0\u64257 cation\
test.\
To summarize, our falsi\uc0\u64257 cation test shows that estimated disemployment in the TWFE-\
logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation is entirely due to employment shocks in the 1980s that were correlated\
with future minimum wage increases decades later, thereby a\uc0\u64256 ecting the estimation of the\
state \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects. This is why the restriction to an explicit event window as in the EB\
speci\uc0\u64257 cation guards against the bias a\u64260 icting the TWFE-logMW speci\u64257 cation. This is\
also why the inclusion of state trends or controls for historical industry/occupation shares\
interacted with periods substantially reduces the likely bias in that speci\uc0\u64257 cation.\
The Partisan Tilt of the 1990-1991 Recession and the Confounder\
Why are state-level employment rates in 1979-1992 are correlated with minimum wage events\
in post-1996? To understand what drives this correlation we plot the time paths of the\
minimum wage (Panel (a)) and employment rates (Panel (b)) of the low and high minimum\
wage states in Figure F.5. The 15 states where the federal minimum wage laws applies during\
1996-2016 are classi\uc0\u64257 ed as low minimum wage states, and the remaining 36 states as high\
minimum wage states. Figure F.5shows that the employment rate of the latter states are\
elevated relative to the former between the mid-1980s and the early 1990s, even as the level of\
minimum wages were almost the same across the two set of states in this period. The elevated\
employment level in the mid-1980s a\uc0\u64256 ects the estimation of the state \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects in the\
TWFE-logMW model covering 1979-2016. However, the divergence between low minimum\
wage and high minimum wage states ended quickly by 1990-1991 recession. Since then the\
employment rates follow parallel trends, even though there is a clear divergence in the level\
of the minimum wage between low and high minimum wage states in the 2000\'92s. The timing\
of divergence between high and low minimum wage states highlights that the bias in the\
TWFE-logMW estimates is related to the di\uc0\u64256 erential impact of the 1990-1991 recession on\
(future) low and high minimum wage states.\
Why is the drop in employment in the 1990-1991 recession related to future minimum\
wage changes in the 2000s? It is possible that the 1990-1991 recession was so severe in some\
states that it changed the political landscape and opened up the door for parties supporting\
minimum wages. Another explanations could be that 1990-1991 recession happened to be\
more pronounced for Democratic-leaning states\'97states that would also be more inclined to\
raise the minimum wage in the early 2000s following a long period of federal inaction. Table\
??aims to test the empirical relevance of these explanations by examining the determinants\
of having a state-level minimum wage higher than the federal level in the post-1996s using a\
105\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 108 of 116]\
linear probability model. Column (1) shows that states that are harder hit by the 1990-1991\
recession are more likely to have a state-level minimum wage after 1996, con\uc0\u64257 rming our\
previous observation about Figure F.5. The model reports that for each percentage point\
decline in employment rate in 1990-1991, the probability of a state to be a high minimum wage\
state increases by 4.2% (s.e. 1.3%). However, including political leanings variables in columns\
(2) and (3) substantially decrease the estimate and renders it statistically indistinguishable\
from zero. In column (2), the unionization rate in the 1980s variable substantially decreases\
the size of the 1990s shock estimate and renders it statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant. In column (3),\
we include the average of the Partisan Voting Index (PVI) in 2000s. The PVI shows the\
shows the di\uc0\u64256 erence between Republican Party and Democratic Party candidates\'92 vote shares\
in the state. To address potential concerns related to long-run e\uc0\u64256 ects of the recession on\
political leanings, we instrument the average PVI in the 2000s with that of the 1988. In this\
case, the coe\uc0\u64259 cient of the severity of the recession has changed its sign, become negative and\
statistically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant. This suggests that the severity of the 1990-1991 recession did not\
have a causal impact on future state-level minimum wage changes.\
Overall, these \uc0\u64257 ndings clarify that the large, negative TWFE-logMW estimate is driven\
by upper tail shocks in the 1980s\'97substantially prior to most minimum wage increases we\
study. Moreover, these shocks are predicted by a state\'92s historical industrial/occupational\
structure. Importantly, these shocks died out substantially prior to most minimum wage\
changes we study: indeed, as we have shown, these shocks do not produce any pre-existing\
trends or upper tail employment changes within the 8-year window used in our event-based\
analysis. However, they do substantially bias the TWFE-logMW estimator that is sensitive\
to underlying long-term trends or persistent shocks occurring many years before the actual\
treatment events.\
106\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 109 of 116]\
Figure F.1: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Wage Distribution by Predicted Probability\
Groups for Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects Speci\u64257 cation\
Employment elas. = -0.014 (0.009)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(a) High probability group (top 10%)\
Employment elas. = 0.027 (0.035)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(b) Middle probability group (10%-50%)\
Employment elas. = -0.103 (0.038)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(c) Low probability group (bottom 50%)\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the wage distribution of the three Card and Kruger probability\
groups in \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects speci\u64257 cation (TWFE-logMW). All panels estimate the regression on the contemporaneous log minimum\
wage, as well as on 4 annual lags and 2 annual leads. For each wage bin we run a separate regression, where the outcome\
is the number of jobs per capita in that state-wage bin. The cumulative response for each event date 0, 1,...,4 is formed by\
successively adding the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for the contemporaneous and lagged log minimum wages. The green histogram bars show\
the mean of these cumulative responses for event dates 0, 1,...,4, divided by the sample average employment-to-population rate\
\'97and represents the average elasticity of employment in each wage bin with respect to the minimum wage in the post-treatment\
period. The 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates are calculated using clustered standard errors at the state level.\
The dashed purple line plots the running sum of the employment e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage up until the particular wage\
bin. The rightmost purple bar in each of the graphs decomposes the post-averaged elasticity of the overall state employment-\
to-population with respect to minimum wage by the groups, where the latter is obtained from the regressions where outcome\
variable is the state level employment-to-population rate. All regressions are weighted by the sample average state population.\
107\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 110 of 116]\
Figure F.2: Impact of Minimum Wages on the Wage Distribution for Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects and First\
Di\uc0\u64256 erences speci\u64257 cations\
Employment elas. = 0.061 (0.025)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(a) Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ect Model (Pre Reform)\
Employment elas. = -0.089 (0.025)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage (b) Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ect Model (Post Reform)\
Employment elas. = -0.049 (0.029)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage\
(c) First Di\uc0\u64256 erences Model (Pre Reform)\
Employment elas. = 0.027 (0.031)-0.2 -0.1 0 0.1Employment elasticity\
$5 $10 $15 $20 $25 >$30 Total\
Wage (d) First Di\uc0\u64256 erences Model (Post Reform)\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the three year the pre reform (panel a and c) and post reform e\u64256 ects (panel b and d) of the minimum\
wage hikes on the wage distribution in \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects (TWFE-logMW) and \u64257 rst di\u64256 erence (FD) speci\u64257 cations. Panels (a) and (b)\
estimate two-way (state-bin and year) \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects regressions on contemporaneous as well as 2 annual leads, and 4 annual lags\
of log minimum wage. In Panels (c) and (d) we employ \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erence regressions on contemporaneous as well as 2 annual leads,\
and 4 annual lags of the log change in the minimum wage. For each wage bin we run a separate regression, where the outcome\
is the number of jobs per capita in that state-wage bin. The pre reform e\uc0\u64256 ect is formed by adding the \u64257 rst and the second\
leading coe\uc0\u64259 cients and multiplying the sum by -1: when the cumulative response at \u964 =\u8722 1is normalized to 0, this represents\
the three year leading e\uc0\u64256 ect relative to the date \u8722 1.For the \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects speci\u64257 cation (panel a), the three year leading e\u64256 ect\
estimate represents three or more years prior to treatment; for the \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erence speci\u64257 cation (panel c), this estimate represents\
exactly three years prior to treatment. The cumulative response for each event date 0, 1, ..., 4 is formed by successively adding\
the coe\uc0\u64259 cients for the contemporaneous and lagged terms. The green bars show the post reform e\u64256 ects calculated by the mean\
of these cumulative responses for event dates 0, 1, ..., 4, divided by the sample average employment-to-population rate \'97and\
represents the average elasticity of employment in each wage bin with respect to the minimum wage in the post-treatment\
period. (panel (b) is the same as Figure 6in the main text). The 95% con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates are\
calculated using clustered standard errors at the state level. The dashed purple line plots the running sum of the employment\
e\uc0\u64256 ects of the minimum wage up until the particular wage bin. The rightmost purple bar in each of the graphs is the elasticity\
of the overall state employment-to-population rate with respect to minimum wage. In the bottom left corner we also report the\
point estimate on this elasticity with standard errors that are clustered at the state level. Regressions are weighted by state\
population.\
108\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 111 of 116]\
Figure F.3: Estimated Impacts of Minimum Wages on Employment Over Time Using\
Alternative Speci\uc0\u64257 cations\
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.2 0Employment elasticity\
\uc0\u8804  -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \u8805  4\
Event time in years\
(a) Fixed e\uc0\u64256 ects\
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.2 0Employment elasticity\
\uc0\u8804  -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \u8805  4\
Event time in years\
(b) Fixed e\uc0\u64256 ects with Linear trends\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on employment over time in the \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects (panel (a)) and in the \u64257 xed\
e\uc0\u64256 ects augmented with state-speci\u64257 c linear trends (panel (b)) models. All panels estimate regressions of state-level employment\
rate on the state-level contemporaneous log minimum wage, as well as on 4 annual lags and 2 annual leads. The blue markers\
show cumulative employment elasticities by event date. These cumulative e\uc0\u64256 ects are calculated by successively summing the\
coe\uc0\u64259 cients on leads and lags of log minimum wage, and then dividing them by the sample average employment-to-population\
rate. Furthermore, the cumulative elasticity at event date -1 is normalized to 0; this is why the \uc0\u64257 gure shows a 3rd year or\
earlier (\uc0\u8804 \u8722 3) estimate.The red error bars indicate the 95% con\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates, calculated using\
clustered standard errors at the state level. All regressions are weighted by sample average state population.\
109\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 112 of 116]\
Figure F.4: Impact of Minimum Wages on Lower- and Upper-tail Employment Over Time\
for Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects Speci\u64257 cation\
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.2 0Employment elasticity\
\uc0\u8804  -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \u8805  4\
Event time in years\
(a) Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects; Below $15\
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.2 0Employment elasticity\
\uc0\u8804  -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 \u8805  4\
Event time in years\
(b) Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects; At or above $15\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the e\u64256 ect of the minimum wage on the number of jobs below (panel (a)), and at or above $15 (panel\
(b)) over time in the \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects (TWFE-logMW) speci\u64257 cation. Panels (a) and (b) estimate regressions of state-level total\
number of jobs below, and at or above $15 over state population on the state-level contemporaneous log minimum wage, as\
well as on 4 annual lags and 2 annual leads. The blue markers show cumulative employment elasticities by event date. These\
cumulative e\uc0\u64256 ects are calculated by successively summing the coe\u64259 cients on leads and lags of log minimum wage, and then\
dividing them by the sample average employment-to-population rate. Furthermore, the cumulative elasticity at event date -1\
is normalized to 0; this is why the \uc0\u64257 gure shows a 3rd year or earlier (\'94 \u8804 \u8722 3\'94)estimate. The red error bars indicate the 95%\
con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals around the point estimates, calculated using clustered standard errors at the state level. All regressions are\
weighted by sample average state population.\
110\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 113 of 116]\
Figure F.5: Time Paths of the Statutory Minimum Wage and Employment Rate in High and\
Low Minimum Wage States\
11.25 1.51.75 22.25log of Minimum Wage\
1980 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 20160.500 0.550 0.600 0.650Employment rate\
1980 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016\
Year\
States with only federal MW in 1996-2016\
States with MW higher than the federal at least once in 1996-2016\
Notes: The \uc0\u64257 gure shows the time paths of the average statutory log minimum wage (Panel (a)) and employment rate (Panel (b))\
in 15 states where the federal minimum wage law applies in 1996 (low minimum wage states) and onward, and in 36 remaining\
states that had state-level minimum wages higher than the federal level at least once in 1996-2016 (high minimum wage states).\
In both graphs, the straight red lines correspond to the low minimum wage states, and the dash blue lines to the high minimum\
wage states.\
111\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 114 of 116]\
Table F.1: Employment Elasticities with Respect to the Minimum Wage, Event-based and\
Continuous Variation\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)\
Bunching 0.024 0.024\
(0.025) (0.020)\
Overall 0.016 0.008 \'960.089***\
(0.029) (0.025) (0.025)\
By wage bin\
Below $15 0.027 0.020 0.020\
(0.022) (0.016) (0.028)\
Over $15 \'960.010 \'960.012 \'960.109***\
(0.042) (0.033) (0.030)\
By demographically predicted wage\
Predicted low-wage workers 0.019** 0.022* \'960.014\
(0.009) (0.013) (0.009)\
Predicted middle-wage workers 0.026 0.001 0.027\
(0.020) (0.014) (0.035)\
Predicted high-wage workers \'960.029 \'960.015 \'960.103***\
(0.023) (0.022) (0.038)\
Event-based Y Y Y Y\
Bin-state-speci\uc0\u64257 c treatment Y Y\
State-speci\uc0\u64257 c treatment Y Y Y\
Discrete treatment Y Y\
Continuous treatment Y Y Y\
Standard TWFE Y\
Notes.The table reports estimated employment elasticities of minimum wage from alternative\
approaches. Column 1 reports our baseline estimates (Column 1 in Table 1) that is derived by\
using local employment changes within a $9 window around the new minimum wage. Column\
2 use the same event study design as in Column 1 (see equation 2), but estimate the e\uc0\u64256 ect\
on below $15 employment counts, on above $15 employment counts, on overall employment\
counts, and on the three Card and Krueger probability groups. In Column 3 we use the 8-year\
event window around the minimum wage like in Column 1, but use a continuous treatment\
measure, where we multiply the wage-bin-state-speci\uc0\u64257 c treatment indicators by the change in\
log minimum wage. Column 4 reports the results using continuous treatment measure for the\
below $15 employment counts, above $15 employment counts, and overall employment counts\
(see equation F.1). For comparison, Column (5) report the results using two way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects\
estimator with log minimum wage (equation F.2) shown in Figure 9. Robust standard errors in\
parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
112\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 115 of 116]\
Table F.2: Robustness of the Two-way Fixed E\uc0\u64256 ects-log(MW) Estimates to Alternative\
Controls\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)\
All workers 0.008 0.031 \'960.089*** 0.010 \'960.025 \'960.027\
(0.025) (0.031) (0.025) (0.036) (0.029) (0.022)\
Event-based Y\
First-di\uc0\u64256 erenced Y\
Standard TWFE Y Y Y Y\
State \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects Y Y Y Y Y\
State-speci\uc0\u64257 c linear trends Y\
Base industry/occupation shares Y\
Partisan voting index Y\
Notes.The table reports estimated employment elasticities of minimum wage from alternative approaches\
and outcome groups. Each column and row is a separately estimated model speci\uc0\u64257 cation and outcome\
group, respectively. Columns 1 shows the results using EB-logMW speci\uc0\u64257 cation (see equation F.1),\
Column 2 the \uc0\u64257 rst di\u64256 erenced speci\u64257 cation (equation F.3), while Columns 3 shows that two-way \u64257 xed\
e\uc0\u64256 ects speci\u64257 cations with log minimum wage (equation F.2). Column 4, 5, and 6 explores robustness of\
the two-way \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects speci\u64257 cations to various controls. Columns 4 add state-speci\u64257 c linear trends,\
Column 5 control for 1979-1980 major industry and occupation shares interacted with time \uc0\u64257 xed e\u64256 ects,\
and Column 6 control for the partisan voting index variable. Robust standard errors in parentheses are\
clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
113\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 116 of 116]\
T\
able F.3: Estimated Impacts of Minimum Wages on Actual, and Simulated Employment Using Alternative Speci\uc0\u64257 cations\
A\
ctual Post 1992 sample Excl. states with pre-1993 eventsExcl. states with\
pre-1996 events\
(1)\
(2) (3) (4) (5) (6)\
P\
anel A: TWFE-logMW\
Emp.\
elas. wrt MW -0.089*** -0.012 -0.106*** -0.091** -0.015 -0.090*\
(0.025) (0.027) (0.037) (0.041) (0.043) (0.047)\
Panel B: FD\
Emp.\
elas. wrt MW 0.031 0.021 -0.034 0.006 -0.040 0.019\
(0.031) (0.030) (0.021) (0.018) (0.024) (0.015)\
Panel C: EB\
Emp.\
elas. wrt MW 0.016 -0.009 -0.027 -0.001 -0.026 0.001\
(0.029) (0.018) (0.039) (0.023) (0.032) (0.023)\
Observations 1479 1020 1160 1160 1160 1131\
Number of states 51 51 40 40 40 39\
Period estimated 1979-2016 1993-2016 1979-2016 1979-2016 1979-2016 1979-2016\
Outcome variable Actual epop Actual epop Actual epopSimulated epop\
(1993 onwards 0)Simulated epop\
(0 until 1992)Simulated epop\
(1993 onwards 0)\
Notes.The table reports the e\uc0\u64256 ect of a minimum wage increase on the actual and simulated employment using the \u64257 xed e\u64256 ects (Panel A),\
\uc0\u64257 rst-di\u64256 erences (Panel B), and the event-based speci\u64257 cations (EB). The \u64257 rst column reports the estimates using the actual employment data\
using the full sample from 1979 to 2016. The second column excludes all the pre-1993 years. The third column employs the entire time span of\
the data, yet leaves out the states that have a minimum wage event before 1993. The fourth column replaces the actual outcome variable in the\
previous column with the simulated employment data, where we use the actual data until 1992, and replace it with 0 from 1993 onwards. The\
\uc0\u64257 fth column uses an alternative simulated data, we use the actual data from 1992, but replace it with 0 before 1993. The sixth column replicates\
the analysis based on the same simulated data as in Column 4, but it excludes all the states that experience a minimum wage increase before\
1996 to account for potential anticipation e\uc0\u64256 ects. Regressions are weighted by state-quarter aggregated population. Robust standard errors in\
parentheses are clustered by state; signi\uc0\u64257 cance levels are * 0.10, ** 0.05, *** 0.01.\
114\
----------------------------------------\
}