{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ============================================================\
FILE: Unemployment and Endogenous Reallocation over the Business Cycle.pdf\
============================================================\
\
[Page 1 of 269]\
Unemployment and Endogenous Reallocation\
over the Business Cycle\'a7 ,\'b6\
Carlos Carrillo-Tudela| |\
University of Essex,\
CEPR, CESifo & IZALudo Visschers **\
University of Edinburgh,\
UC3M, CESifo & IZA\
March 2023\
Abstract\
This paper studies the extent to which the cyclicality of occupational mobility shapes\
that of aggregate unemployment and its duration distribution. We document the relation\
between workers\'92 occupational mobility and unemployment duration over the long run\
and business cycle. To interpret this evidence, we develop a multi-sector business cycle\
model with heterogenous agents. The model is quantitatively consistent with several\
important features of the US labor market: procyclical gross and countercyclical net oc-\
cupational mobility, the large volatility of unemployment and the cyclical properties of\
the unemployment duration distribution, among many others. Our analysis shows that\
occupational mobility due to workers\'92 changing career prospects, and not occupation-\
wide differences, interacts with aggregate conditions to drive the \uc0\u64258 uctuations of the un-\
employment duration distribution and the aggregate unemployment rate.\
Keywords : Unemployment, Business Cycle, Rest, Search, Occupational Mobility.\
JEL: E24, E30, J62, J63, J64.\
\'a7This working paper collects the main text and online appendix of \'93Unemployment and Endoge-\
nous Reallocation over the Business Cycle\'94 (accepted in Econometrica in February 2023), and the\
supplementary appendices that provide further background and investigation. The online appendix\
starts on page 46, supplementary appendix A (code error correction) on page 73, supplementary\
appendix B (data) on page 117, and supplementary appendix C (theory) on page 218.\
\'b6We would like to thank Melvyn G. Coles, Leo Kaas, David Wiczer and many other colleagues\
in workshops and seminars whose comments and suggestions helped improved the paper. We also\
thank Rahel Felder and Junko Iwagami who provided excellent research assistance with the data\
analysis. The authors acknowledge \uc0\u64257 nancial support from the UK Economic and Social Research\
Council (ESRC), award reference ES/V016970/1. Ludo Visschers further acknowledges \uc0\u64257 nancial\
support from the ESRC, award reference ES/L009633/1 (MacCaLM project at the University of Edin-\
burgh) and Fundaci\'f3n BBVA (Ayudas a Equipos de Investigaci\'f3n Cient\'ed\uc0\u64257 ca Sars-Cov-2 y Covid-19).\
The usual disclaimer applies. \'a92023 The authors.\
| |Correspondence: Department of Economics, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester,\
CO4 3SQ, UK. Email: cocarr@essex.ac.uk.\
**Correspondence: School of Economics, The University of Edinburgh, 30 Buccleuch Place, Edin-\
burgh, UK, EH8 9JT, UK. Email: ludo.visschers@ed.ac.uk.arXiv:2304.00544v1  [econ.GN]  2 Apr 2023\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 2 of 269]\
1 Introduction\
Occupational mobility is an important part of unemployed workers\'92 job \uc0\u64257 nding pro-\
cess. On average 44% of workers who went through a spell of unemployment in the\
US changed \'93major occupational groups\'94 (MOGs) at re-employment.1These occu-\
pation movers also take longer to \uc0\u64257 nd a job and contribute to the cyclical changes in\
long-term unemployment. When in downturns the average unemployment dura-\
tion for occupation stayers increases, for occupation movers the increase is around\
35% larger. This suggests that the willingness and ability of individuals to move\
across different sectors of the economy can have important consequences for aggre-\
gate labor market \uc0\u64258 uctuations. This paper builds on this evidence and studies the\
implications of unemployed workers\'92 occupational mobility for the cyclical behav-\
ior of the unemployment duration distribution and the aggregate unemployment\
rate.\
We propose and quantitatively assess a multi-sector business cycle model in\
which the unemployed face search frictions in, and reallocation frictions across, het-\
erogeneous occupations. The economy we consider further exhibits idiosyncratic\
worker-occupation productivity shocks, orthogonal to occupation-wide productiv-\
ities, to capture the evolving career prospects of a worker within an occupation.\
Workers accumulate occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c human capital through learning-by-doing,\
but face skill loss during unemployment. Even with this rich level of heterogene-\
ity, workers\'92 job separations and reallocation decisions can be characterised by sim-\
ple reservation (idiosyncratic) productivity cutoffs that respond to aggregate and\
occupational-wide productivities.\
A key success of the framework is that it can generate a wide range of cross-\
sectional occupational mobility and unemployment duration patterns, as well as the\
observed cyclical \uc0\u64258 uctuations of aggregate unemployment, its duration distribution\
and a strongly downward-sloping Beveridge curve. The cyclical responses of the\
model\'92s aggregate job separation and job \uc0\u64257 nding rates are also in line with the data\
(see Shimer, 2005). In addition, the model generates the observed procyclicality of\
1Major occupational groups are broad categories that can be thought of as representing one-digit\
occupations. For example, managers, sales, mechanic and repairers, construction/extraction, of-\
\uc0\u64257 ce/admin support, elementary trades, etc. The above proportion is obtained after correcting for\
measurement error.\
1\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 3 of 269]\
gross occupational mobility among the unemployed and the stronger countercycli-\
cality of unemployment duration among occupational movers. It also generates the\
observed increase in net reallocation of workers across occupations during reces-\
sions (see Dvorkin, 2014, Pilossoph, 2014 and Chodorow-Reich and Wieland, 2020).\
Our approach provides a novel insight. It is the interaction between workers\'92\
idiosyncratic career productivities and aggregate conditions, and not occupation-\
wide differences, that drive cyclical unemployment. The main mechanism is as\
follows. The estimation yields within each occupation a job separation cutoff that is\
above the reallocation cutoff. This captures that with uncertain career prospects and\
costly reallocation, those unemployed with idiosyncratic productivities between the\
cutoffs prefer the option of waiting and remaining attached to their pre-separation\
occupations instead of reallocating. During recessions the area between these cut-\
offs widens endogenously and workers spend a longer period of their jobless spells\
waiting even though there are currently no jobs they could \uc0\u64257 ll. The higher option\
value of waiting drives up (long-term) unemployment more for occupation movers\
than stayers and helps create the observed cyclical ampli\uc0\u64257 cation and persistence in\
the aforementioned aggregate labor market variables.\
The importance of idiosyncratic career productivities in the model\'92s mechanism\
re\uc0\u64258 ects the prominence of excess mobility, i.e. moves that cancel each other out at\
the occupation level, in driving key occupation mobility patterns in the data. We\
use the observed high propensity to change occupations and its increase with unem-\
ployment duration to uncover the stochastic process of idiosyncratic career shocks.\
The estimated process then shapes workers\'92 incentive to wait. This waiting motive\
is evidenced by the observation that even after a year in unemployment about 45%\
of workers still re-gain employment in their previous occupations. As the incentive\
to wait changes over the cycle, the model generates procyclical excess and gross\
mobility, inline with the data.\
A prominent literature of multi-sector models in the spirit of Lucas and Prescott\
(1974) \'93islands\'94 framework typically emphasises countercyclical net reallocation of\
unemployed workers across sectors as the main underlying force behind unemploy-\
ment \uc0\u64258 uctuations (see Lilien, 1982, Rogerson, 1987). Countercyclical unemployment\
can arise when in recessions more workers engage in time consuming switches from\
2\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 4 of 269]\
hard hit sectors to those which offer relatively higher job \uc0\u64257 nding prospects. To cap-\
ture the role of occupation heterogeneity we use an imperfect directed search ap-\
proach to model search across occupations over the business cycle (see also Chere-\
mukhin et al. 2020 and Wu, 2020). Nevertheless, as gross \uc0\u64258 ows are an order of mag-\
nitude greater than net \uc0\u64258 ows, adding this dimension does not change the impor-\
tance of workers\'92 career shocks over occupation-wide productivities in explaining\
labor market \uc0\u64258 uctuations or the procyclical nature of gross occupational mobility.\
This occurs because the option value of waiting remains important within (cycli-\
cally) declining and expanding occupations. We show that there is no contradiction\
between changing career prospects playing a very important role in shaping cyclical\
unemployment, and worker \uc0\u64258 ows through unemployment contributing meaning-\
fully to the changing sizes of occupations particularly during recessions.\
The empirical study of occupation (or industry) mobility focused exclusively on\
workers who went through unemployment has received relatively little attention.\
This is in contrast to the larger amount of research investigating occupational mo-\
bility among pooled samples of employer movers and stayers (see Kambourov and\
Manovskii, 2008, and Moscarini and Thomsson, 2007, among others). There is no\
reason, a priori, to conclude that the mobility patterns uncovered by these studies\
apply to the unemployed. We use data from the Survey of Income and Programme\
Participation (SIPP) between 1983-2014 to document relevant patterns linking indi-\
viduals\'92 occupational mobility with their unemployment duration outcomes. We\
use the Panel Survey for Income Dynamics (PSID) and the Current Population Sur-\
vey (CPS) to corroborate our results.\
We calibrate our model using simulated method of moments. The calibration\
\uc0\u64257 nds that the nature of unemployment changes over the cycle. Rest/wait unem-\
ployment becomes relative more prominent in recession and search unemployment\
in expansions. Alvarez and Shimer (2011) also study the relative importance of rest\
and search unemployment using a multi-sector model, but in an aggregate steady\
state. Their analysis implies that transitions between work, rest and search are not\
determined. In contrast, the dynamics of workers\'92 idiosyncratic career shocks in our\
framework determines the transitions between employment and the different types\
of unemployment. This enables the joint analysis of unemployment duration and\
3\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 5 of 269]\
occupational mobility, both in the long-run and over the cycle.\
The large and persistent rise in unemployment observed during and in the after-\
math of the Great Recession generated a renewed interest in multi-sector business\
cycle models as useful frameworks to investigate cyclical unemployment. Like our\
paper, Pilossoph (2014) \uc0\u64257 nds a muted effect of net reallocation on aggregate unem-\
ployment. Chodorow-Reich and Wieland (2020) build on this work and \uc0\u64257 nd that\
net reallocation co-moves with unemployment most strongly during the recession-\
to-recovery phase of the cycle. In these papers, gross mobility is constant or coun-\
tercyclical, which is at odds with the data.2These papers also do not focus on the\
relation between individuals\'92 unemployment duration and their occupational mo-\
bility, how this relation changes over the cycle or results in cyclical shifts of the\
unemployment duration distribution, where the rise of long-term unemployment is\
shared across occupations (see Kroft et al., 2016).3\
The rest of the paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 presents the empirical evi-\
dence motivating our paper. Section 3 presents the model and its main implications.\
Sections 4 and 5 provide its quantitative analysis. Section 6 concludes. All proofs,\
detailed data, quantitative analysis and extensive robustness exercises are relegated\
to the online appendix and several additional supplementary appendices.4\
2 Occupational Mobility of the Unemployed\
Our main statistical analysis is based on the sequence of 1984-2008 SIPP panels,\
covering the 1983-2014 period. The sample restricts attention to those workers who\
were observed transiting from employment to unemployment and back within a\
given panel ( EUE \uc0\u64258 ows), and excludes those in self-employment, the armed forces,\
or agricultural occupations.5In our main analysis we consider workers who have\
2To the best of our knowledge Dvorkin (2014) is the only one who attempts to reproduce the\
procyclicality of gross mobility together with the countercyclicality of net mobility. However, his\
calibrated model remains far from the data (see his Table 9).\
3Closer to our analysis is Wiczer (2015). An important difference is that in our framework work-\
ers take into account the potential recovery of their idiosyncratic productivities when making job\
separations and reallocation decisions. This feature is crucial for the cyclical properties of our model.\
4The online appendix and the additional supplementary appendices are included below, after the\
main text. The online appendix starts on page 46, supplementary appendix A (code error correction)\
on page 73, supplementary appendix B (data) on page 117, and supplementary appendix C (theory)\
on page 218.\
5The self-employed are not included as they might face a very different frictional environment,\
one were vacancies are not needed to gain employment. These differences also seem to persist over\
4\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 6 of 269]\
been unemployed throughout their jobless spells, but show that our results hold\
when using mixed unemployment / out-of-labor-force spells. To minimize the ef-\
fects of censoring due to the SIPP structure, we consider EUE spells for which re-\
employment occurs as from month 16 since the start of the corresponding panel\
and impose that workers at the moment of re-employment have at least 14 months\
of continuous labor market history within their panel. In Supplementary Appendix\
B.7 we provide further details of the data construction and analyse the implications\
of these restrictions.\
An individual is considered unemployed if he/she has not been working for at\
least a month after leaving employment and reported \'93no job - looking for work or\
on layoff\'94. Since we want to focus on workers who have become unattached from\
their previous employers, we consider those who report to be \'93with a job - on lay-\
off\'94, as employed.6After dropping all observations with imputed occupations, we\
compare reported occupations before and after the jobless spell. To capture mean-\
ingful career changes we use the 21 \'93major\'94 occupational groups of the 2000 Census\
Occupational Classi\uc0\u64257 cation (2000 SOC) as well as their aggregation into task-based\
occupational categories (see Autor et al., 2003). In the SIPP , however, the occupa-\
tion information of employer movers is collected under independent interviewing,\
which is known to in\uc0\u64258 ate the importance of occupational mobility. We address this\
issue by developing a novel classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model that corrects for coding errors\
in the \uc0\u64258 ows between particular occupations, and thereby capture more accurately\
coding errors for those occupations that weigh more among the unemployed.\
time. We \uc0\u64257 nd that 50% of those who transited from self-employment to unemployment in the SIPP\
went back to self-employment. This suggests that self-employment begets self-employment, a fea-\
ture not captured in our model. On the other hand, 96% of those who transited from paid em-\
ployment into unemployment returned to paid employment and are captured in our model. Not\
including individuals that at some point during a SIPP panel were self-employed implies dropping\
11% of person-month observations from our data.\
6Fujita and Moscarini (2017) \uc0\u64257 nd that the unemployed consist of \'93temporary laid-off workers\'94\
and \'93permanent separators\'94. In the latter group are those who lost their job with no indication of\
recall. Similarly, Hornstein (2013) and Ahn and Hamilton (2020) consider two groups among the\
unemployed: those with high and those with low job \uc0\u64257 nding rates. Excluding those \'93with a job - on\
layoff\'94 and those who \uc0\u64257 nd employment within a month means that our unemployment sample is\
close to Fujita and Moscarini\'92s \'93permanent separators\'94 and to Hornstein\'92s and Ahn and Hamilton\'92s\
\'93low job \uc0\u64257 nding rate\'94 workers. In Supplementary Appendix B.4.4, we discuss this issue further.\
5\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 7 of 269]\
2.1 Correcting for Coding Errors in Occupation Mobility\
Suppose that coding errors are made according to a garbling matrix Gof size OxO,\
where Odenotes the number of occupational categories. The element gijis the prob-\
ability that the true occupation i=1, 2, ..., Ois coded as occupation j=1, 2, ..., O,\
such that \'e5O\
j=1gij=1. Let Mdenote the matrix that contains workers\'92 true occu-\
pational \uc0\u64258 ows, where element mijis the \u64258 ow of workers from occupation ito occu-\
pation j. Under independent interviewing such a matrix appears as MI=G0MG,\
where the pre- and post-multiplication by Gtakes into account that the observed\
occupations of origin and destination would be subject to coding error. Knowledge\
ofG(and of its invertibility) allows us to de-garble MasG10MIG1.\
Online Appendix A describes this correction methodology formally. Supple-\
mentary Appendix A provides all the proofs and detailed discussion. There we\
prove that Gcan be identi\uc0\u64257 ed and estimated by making three assumptions. ( A1)\
Independent classi\uc0\u64257 cation errors : conditional on the true occupation, the realization of\
an occupational code does not depend on workers\'92 labor market histories, demo-\
graphic characteristics or the time it occurred in our sample. ( A2)\'93Detailed balance\'94\
in miscoding : coding mistakes are symmetric in that the number of workers whose\
true occupation igets mistakenly coded as jis the same as the number of workers\
whose true occupation jgets mistakenly coded as i. (A3)Strict diagonal dominance :\
It is more likely to correctly code occupation ithan to miscode it. In Supplementary\
Appendix A we use SIPP , PSID and CPS data to evaluate the plausibility of these\
assumptions, investigate the implications of the error correction model and verify\
that the resulting patterns hold under alternative correction methods (see also Sup-\
plementary Appendix B).\
We implement our method using the change from independent to dependent in-\
terviewing that occurred between the 1985 and 1986 SIPP panels. This shows that at\
re-employment true occupational stayers have on average about a 20% chance of ap-\
pearing as occupational movers, based on the 2000 SOC. Further, different occupa-\
tions have very different propensities to be miscoded and, given a true occupation,\
some mistakes are much more likely than others. This matters for measuring net\
mobility (de\uc0\u64257 ned below), where we \u64257 nd a sizeable relative increase in net mobility\
after correction.\
6\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 8 of 269]\
Figure 1: Extent of Occupational Mobility by Unemployment Duration\
(a) Overall\
0.10.20.30.40.50.60.7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
123456789101112\
Months in Unemployment\uc0\u915 -corrected Uncorrected\
Major Occupation Groups Smoothed \
4-cat. NRMC (NR/Rout x Man/Cogn)  95% CI (b) By Age Groups (Major Occupational Groups)\
0.10.20.30.40.50.60.7\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12\
Months in Unemployment\uc0\u915 -corrected Uncorrected\
Young (20-30yo) Young (raw data)\
Prime-aged (35-55yo) Prime-aged (raw data)\
Notes: Each mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le shows for a given unemployment duration x, the proportion of workers who changed\
occupations at re-employment among all workers who had unemployment spells which lasted at least xmonths.\
2.2 Gross Occupational Mobility and Unemployment Duration\
Figure 1 presents a key empirical pattern for our analysis: the mobility-duration pro-\
\uc0\u64257 le. It shows the degree of attachment workers have to their pre-separation occupa-\
tion in relation to their unemployment duration. Each pro\uc0\u64257 le shows, for duration x,\
the proportion of workers who changed occupations at re-employment among all\
workers who had unemployment spells that lasted at least xmonths.\
Figure 1a shows that 44.5% of workers who had at least one month in unem-\
ployment changed occupation at re-employment, while 54.6% of workers who had\
at least 9 months in unemployment changed occupation at re-employment. This\
evidence thus shows that gross occupational mobility at re-employment is high and\
increases moderately with unemployment duration. The moderate increase implies\
that a large proportion of long-term unemployed, over 40%, still return to their\
previous occupation at re-employment.7The \uc0\u64257 gure shows that a similar pattern\
arises when using the task-based occupational categories: non-routine cognitive\
(NRC), routine cognitive (RC), non-routine manual (NRM )and routine manual\
(RM)occupations. Supplementary Appendix B.1 shows this pattern also holds\
7Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) compare two measures of year-to-year occupational mobil-\
ity of pooled employer movers and stayers using the PSID, one that includes and one that excludes\
the unemployed. They \uc0\u64257 nd that the inclusion of unemployed workers raises the year-to-year oc-\
cupational mobility rate by 2.5 percentage points, using a two-digit aggregation. Supplementary\
Appendices A and B.5 relate in more detail our analysis to theirs.\
7\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 9 of 269]\
when using non-employment spells, simultaneous industry/occupation mobility\
or self-reported duration of occupational tenure.\
Demographics Supplementary Appendix B.1 shows the same patterns across\
gender, education and race groups. The level of gross mobility, however, decreases\
substantially with age, from 52.6% when young (20-30yo) to 39.7% when prime-\
aged (35-55yo). Figure 1b shows that the pro\uc0\u64257 le of prime-aged workers is below\
that of the young by about 9-13 percentage points but has a very similar slope. Thus,\
prime-aged workers display more attachment to their occupation but lose it in a\
similar way with duration as young workers.\
Mobility by occupation Figure 2 shows that most occupations share high mo-\
bility rates. Occupation igross mobility rate (height of each light-shaded bar) is\
de\uc0\u64257 ned as EiUEi/EiUE, where the numerator denotes the EUE spells of workers\
previously employed in i\uc0\u64257 nding employment in a different occupation and the de-\
nominator captures all EUE spells that originate from occupation i.8Occupations\
with mobility rates above 40% cover more than 80% of all EUE spells in our data.\
Apart from small and specialized occupations (as engineers, architects, and doc-\
tors), construction is the only large occupation with a rate of about 25%. Further,\
the slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le does not arise because some occupations\
with relatively high unemployment durations have particularly high occupational\
out\uc0\u64258 ows \'96 rather, it appears that the unemployed across all occupations lose their\
attachment gradually (see Supplementary Appendix B.1 for details).\
2.3 Excess and Net Mobility\
To assess the importance of moves that result in certain occupations experiencing\
net in\uc0\u64258 ows (out\u64258 ows) through unemployment, we divide gross occupational mo-\
bility into net and excess mobility. The dark bars in Figure 2 depict the net mobility\
rate per occupation, de\uc0\u64257 ned as (EiUE iEiUEi)/EiUE, where the numerator de-\
notes the difference between gross in\uc0\u64258 ows and out\u64258 ows for occupation i. It is evi-\
dent that net \uc0\u64258 ows are an order of magnitude smaller than gross \u64258 ows across almost\
all occupations, the main exception being managerial occupations. The average net\
8We de\uc0\u64257 ne our measures of gross, excess and net occupational mobility based on EUE spells as\
the longitudinal dimension of the SIPP implies that a worker may have more than one EUE spell.\
We consider each spell separately when constructing these mobility measures.\
8\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 10 of 269]\
Figure 2: Gross and Net Occupational Mobility per Occupation\
Science OccsComm/Social Service Personal Care Management \
Protective ServicesBiz&Finance Ops. SalesBuilding ServicesFood Preparation/Services\
     Arts, Entertainment, Sports          Healthcare supportProduction OccupationsR epair/Maint./Installation Admin SupportT ransport Occupations Computer&Math OccsLegal EducationHealth Practitioners Architct/Engineering Construction\
-0.4-0.20.00.20.40.60.81.0Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)Average Gross Mobility     Gross Mobility :        NRC              NRM            RC           RM \
Average Net Mobility         Net Mobility :           NRC               NRM            RC            RM     \
Average Net Mobility, excl. Management\
RM\
RM\
RM\
RM\
RC\
RC\
RC\
NRM\
NRM\
NRM\
NRM\
NRM\
NRM\
NRM\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
NRC\
Notes: Gross mobility: The height of each light-shaded bar measures the gross mobility. Occupations are sorted in decreasing\
order by their gross mobility. Net mobility: The height of each dark-shaded bar measures net mobility of occupation i. A\
positive value refers to net in\uc0\u64258 ows, while a negative value to net out\u64258 ows. The area of each of these bars gives the occupation-\
speci\uc0\u64257 c net \u64258 ows. The solid line correspond to the average gross occupational mobility rate. The dashed lines correspond to\
the average net mobility rate with and without managerial occupations. All data are corrected for miscoding.\
mobility rate, 0.5 \'e5ijEiUE iEiUEij/EUE (where EUE =\'e5iEiUE) equals 4.3%\
(uncorrected for miscoding, 3%).9Figure 2 also shows a clear directional pattern:\
net out\uc0\u64258 ows from the RM occupations and net in\u64258 ows into the NRM occupations.\
Excess mobility is the most important component of occupational mobility, ex-\
cept for management. The average excess mobility rate \'e5minfEiUE i,EiUEig/EUE\
implies that 40.1% of all EUE spells represent excess mobility, about 90% of all gross\
mobility. In Supplementary Appendix B.2 we show that these results are robust to\
alternative occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cations and using non-employment spells.\
The increase of occupational mobility with duration documented in Figure 1 is\
also driven predominantly by excess mobility. We re-compute the average net and\
excess mobility rates de\uc0\u64257 ned above on the subset of EUE spells of at least duration\
x=1, 2, 3, ..., 12. This shows that the rise of excess mobility with duration does not\
support the notion that long-term unemployment is primarily driven by a subset\
of occupations in which workers are particularly eager to leave for another set of\
occupations with better conditions (see Supplementary Appendix B.2).\
9The pre-multiplication by 0.5 re\uc0\u64258 ects that each net out\u64258 ow in some occupation is simultane-\
ously also counted as a net in\uc0\u64258 ow in other occupations. Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) have also\
highlighted the small relative importance of net mobility across occupations in pooled samples of\
employer mover and stayers.\
9\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 11 of 269]\
2.4 Repeat Mobility\
The SIPP allows us to investigate the evolution of a worker\'92s attachment to occu-\
pations across multiple unemployment spells. These \'93repeat mobility\'94 statistics tell\
us whether workers who changed (did not change) occupations after an unemploy-\
ment spell, will change occupation subsequently after a following unemployment\
spell. Here we can also use the G-correction to counteract coding errors in three-\
occupation histories (surrounding two unemployment spells).10\
We \uc0\u64257 nd that of all those stayers who became unemployed once again, 63.4%\
remain in the same occupation after concluding their second unemployment spell.\
This percentage is higher for prime-aged workers, 65.6%, and lower for young work-\
ers, 61.7%. However, the loss of occupational attachment itself also persists. Among\
workers who re-enter unemployment after changing occupations in the preceding\
unemployment spell, 54.4% move again. This is lower for prime-aged workers,\
49.1%, and higher for the young, 64.5%. Supplementary Appendix B.5 shows a\
similar pattern in the PSID.\
2.5 Occupational Mobility of the Unemployed over the Cycle\
Unemployed workers\'92 attachment to their previous occupations changes over the\
business cycle. In expansions unemployed workers change occupations more fre-\
quently than in recessions. Panel A of Table 1 investigates the cyclicality of oc-\
cupational mobility by regressing the (log) gross mobility rate on the (log) unem-\
ployment rate. Columns (i) and (ii) relate the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered quarterly series of the\
G-corrected and uncorrected occupational mobility rates obtained from the SIPP to\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series of the unemployment rate, with a \u64257 ltering parameter of 1600. Be-\
cause there are proportionally more stayers and hence more spurious mobility in\
10Let the matrix Mr(with elements mr\
ijk) be the OOOmatrix of true repeat \uc0\u64258 ows. Then, this\
matrix relates to the observed repeat \uc0\u64258 ow matrix Mr,obsthrough vec(Mr)0=vec(Mr,obs)0(G\
G\
G)1, where vec(M)is the vectorization of matrix M, and\
denotes the Kronecker product. Since\
Gis invertible, G\
G\
Gis also invertible. The repeat mobility statistics are then measured within\
SIPP 3.5 to 5 years windows and are based on 610 of observations of individuals with multiple spells\
across all panels when considering only pure unemployment spells and 1,306 when considering non-\
employment spells that include months of unemployment. For further details see Supplementary\
Appendix B.7. Note that workers with two consecutive unemployment spells within this window\
are not necessarily representative of all unemployed workers, nor of behavior in unemployment\
spells that are further apart. Nevertheless, these statistics are valuable and will inform our modelling\
choices and quantitative analysis (by indirect inference).\
10\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 12 of 269]\
Table 1: Occupational Mobility and Unemployment Duration over the Business Cy-\
cle\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Qtrly Occ. Mobility Un\u64257 ltered Occ Mobility\
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vii)\
SIPP SIPP CPS SIPP SIPP CPS SIPP\
G-corrected uncorrected uncorrected G-corrected uncorrected uncorrected uncorrected\
Panel A: Mobility regression, not controlling for non-employment duration\
HP U -0.145 -0.088 -0.087 -0.122 -0.114 -0.077 -0.132\
(0.041) (0.026) (0.024) (0.059) (0.046) (0.022) (0.041)\
Controls - - - T T T D,T, C, S.O.\
Panel B: Mobility regression, controlling for non-employment duration\
HP U - - - -0.171 -0.149 -0.112 -0.176\
- - - (0.061) (0.048) (0.024) (0.042)\
Dur. coef - - - 0.0126 0.0138 0.0116 0.0145\
- - - (0.002) (0.002) (0.001) (0.002)\
Controls - - - T T T D,T, C, S.O.\
Notes: SIPP sample is restricted to quarters where the data allows the full spectrum of durations between 1-12 months to be measured. Standard errors\
clustered on quarters and shown in parenthesis. See Supplementary Appendix B.7 for details. CPS data described in Supplementary Appendix B.5.\
Controls : D=demographic controls (gender, race, education, and a quartic in age); T=linear trend, C=dummies for the classi\uc0\u64257 cation in which data was\
originally reported; S.O.= source occupation.\
recessions, the G-corrected series yields a somewhat stronger cyclicality than the un-\
corrected one. Column (iii) presents the regression results based on (uncorrected)\
occupational mobility data from the CPS for the period 1979-2019 (see Supplemen-\
tary Appendix B.5). We use the CPS as its quarterly mobility series does not suffer\
from gaps. We observe that the uncorrected SIPP and CPS series have nearly the\
same degree of procyclicality, suggesting that data gaps do not meaningfully affect\
our conclusion.11\
Columns (iv)-(vii) present the results of regressing un\uc0\u64257 ltered occupational mo-\
bility series on the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment rate for further robustness. Again,\
both SIPP and CPS give a broadly similar procyclicality. The last column adds fur-\
ther individual-level controls and shows that these do not meaningfully change our\
results. The procyclicality of occupational mobility is thus not the result of a com-\
positional shift towards occupations or demographics characteristics that are associ-\
ated with higher mobility during an expansion. In Supplementary Appendix B.3 we\
provide an extensive set of robustness exercises based on the SIPP , all showing the\
procyclicality of gross occupational mobility. Supplementary Appendix B.5 further\
11Restricting the CPS series to start after the 1994-redesign does not change our results. See Supple-\
mentary Appendix B.5. The SIPP series have data missing due to non-overlapping panels combined\
with our sampling restrictions (to avoid censoring issues), as described in Supplementary Appendix\
B.7. To deal with these gaps, we use TRAMO-SEATS for interpolation, HP-\uc0\u64257 lter the series and then\
discard all quarters that were interpolated.\
11\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 13 of 269]\
Figure 3: Cyclicality of Occupational Mobility, 1985-2014\
(a) Occ. Mobility - Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le Shift\
0.400.450.500.550.600.65Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
123456789101112\
Months in UnemploymentTimes of Low U \
   95% CI\
Times of High U\
   95% CI (b) Net Occ. Mobility - Task-based categories\
-0.02-0.010.000.010.020.03\
NRC RC NRM RMTimes of Low U\
Times of High U\
Notes: Left panel: The circular markets depict non-smoothed data and the solid curves represent the smoothed mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. The thickness of the pro\u64257 les indicates the amount of spells surviving at a given duration. Right panel:\
The net mobility rate for each task-based category is computed excluding Managers, separately for periods of high and low\
unemployment. The version including Managers can be found in the Supplementary Appendix B.3.\
shows procyclical occupational mobility using the PSID for the period 1968-1997.\
Cyclicality of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le Figure 3a depicts the cyclical shift\
of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. It plots the pro\u64257 le separately for those EUE spells\
that ended in times of high unemployment and those that ended in times of low un-\
employment. Times of high (low) unemployment are de\uc0\u64257 ned as periods in which\
the de-trended (log) unemployment rate was within the bottom (top) third of the de-\
trended (log) unemployment distribution. Occupational mobility at any duration is\
lower in recessions, corroborating the procyclicality of gross occupational mobility.\
Both in times of high and low unemployment, an increase in unemployment dura-\
tion is associated with a moderate loss of attachment to workers\'92 previous occupa-\
tion. Panel B in Table 1 similarly shows the vertical shift of the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le over the cycle and that this is robust to demographics and (origin) occupation\
controls.\
The cyclicality of net occupational mobility Figure 3b shows the cyclical behav-\
ior of the net mobility rate for each of the task-based categories. The net mobility rate\
is computed as (EiUE iEiUEi)/EUE , separately for periods of high and low un-\
employment.12Across all task-based categories the net mobility rate increases when\
12Differently from Section 2.3 we normalise net \uc0\u64258 ows in each task-based category by the total num-\
ber of EUE spells observed in periods of either high or low unemployment. Here we also exclude\
managers. Supplementary Appendix B.3 shows that this exclusion implies that RCoccupations are\
now experiencing net out\uc0\u64258 ows instead of net in\u64258 ows as suggested by Figure 2.\
12\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 14 of 269]\
unemployment is high, even though EUE also increases. In particular, RM occupa-\
tions increase their net out\uc0\u64258 ows in downturns relative to expansions, while NRM\
occupations increase their net in\uc0\u64258 ows in downturns relative to expansions. The\
countercyclicality of net mobility therefore implies that the stronger procyclicality\
of excess mobility is the main driver of the procyclical behavior of gross mobility\
among unemployed workers.13\
Comparing unemployment spells between movers and stayers The mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le implies that occupational movers have on average longer spells\
than stayers. From an expansion to a recession, this difference grows from 0.4 to 0.9\
months.14This increase does not result from cyclically different demographics of\
unemployed movers or because they are more likely to come from (move to) occu-\
pations with long unemployment durations in recessions (see Supplementary Ap-\
pendix B.4). Although occupational mobility decreases in recessions, the lengthen-\
ing of unemployment spells among movers is proportionally stronger. Occupational\
movers thus contribute meaningfully to the increase in aggregate unemployment,\
and especially to the increase in long-term unemployment.\
3 Theoretical Framework\
We now develop a theory of occupational mobility of the unemployed to explain\
the above empirical patterns and link them to the cyclical behavior of long and short\
term unemployment as well as the aggregate unemployment rate.\
3.1 Environment\
Time is discrete t=0, 1, 2, . . . A mass of in\uc0\u64257 nitely-lived, risk-neutral workers is\
distributed over a \uc0\u64257 nite number of occupations o=1, . . . , O. At any time t, work-\
ers within a given occupation can be either employed or unemployed and differ\
in two components: an idiosyncratic productivity, zt, and human capital, xt. We\
interpret the z-productivity as a \'93career match\'94 which captures in a reduced form\
the changing career prospects workers have in their occupations (see Neal, 1999).\
13Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) using PSID data also \uc0\u64257 nd countercyclical net mobility and\
procyclical gross mobility among a pooled sample of employer stayers and movers.\
14Averaging all spells in our sample, the difference is 0.7 month. This amount is economically\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant, 40% of the difference between the average duration of unemployment spells in periods\
of high versus low unemployment.\
13\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 15 of 269]\
These z-productivities follow a common and bounded \uc0\u64257 rst-order stationary Markov\
process, with transition law F(zt+1jzt).15Their realizations affect a worker both\
in employment and in unemployment and will drive excess occupational mobil-\
ity. To capture the different levels of attachment to occupations found across age\
groups, workers\'92 accumulate occupational human capital through a learning-by-\
doing process while employed, and are subject to human capital depreciation while\
unemployed. Conditional on the worker\'92s employment status, his human capi-\
talxtis assumed to evolve stochastically following a Markov chain with values\
xt2fx1, ...,xHg,x1>0 and xH<\'a5.\
Each occupation is subject to occupation-wide productivity shocks. Let po,tde-\
note the productivity of occupation oat time tand pt=fpo,tgO\
o=1the vector that\
contains all occupation productivities at time t. Differences across po,twill drive net\
mobility. Business cycle \uc0\u64258 uctuations occur due to changes in aggregate productiv-\
ity,At. We allow the occupation-wide productivity process to depend on At. Both\
po,tand Atfollow bounded \uc0\u64257 rst-order stationary Markov processes.\
There is a mass of in\uc0\u64257 nitely-lived risk-neutral \u64257 rms distributed across occupa-\
tions. All \uc0\u64257 rms are identical and operate under a constant return to scale technology,\
using labor as the only input. Each \uc0\u64257 rm consists of only one job that can be either va-\
cant or \uc0\u64257 lled. The output of an employed worker characterised by (z,x,o)in period\
tis given by the production function y(At,po,t,zt,xt), which is strictly increasing\
and continuous in all of its arguments and differentiable in the \uc0\u64257 rst three.\
All agents discount the future at rate b. Workers retire stochastically, receiving\
a \uc0\u64257 xed utility \u64258 ow normalized to zero. They are replaced by new entrants, unem-\
ployed and inexperienced workers with x1that are allocated across occupations fol-\
lowing an exogenous distribution y. We rescale bto incorporate this retirement risk.\
Match break-up can occur with an exogenous (and constant) probability d, but also\
if the worker and \uc0\u64257 rm decide to do so, and after a retirement shock. Once the match\
is broken, the \uc0\u64257 rm decides to reopen the vacancy and, unless retired, the worker\
stays unemployed until the end of the period. An unemployed worker receives b\
each period. Wages will be determined below.\
15The assumption that the zprocess is common across workers and occupations is motivated by\
our evidence showing that the change in occupational mobility with unemployment duration does\
not seem to differ across occupations or demographic groups.\
14\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 16 of 269]\
To study business cycle behavior in a tractable way, we focus on Block Recur-\
sive Equilibria (BRE). In this type of equilibria the value functions and decisions of\
workers and \uc0\u64257 rms only depend on wt=fzt,xt,o,At,ptgand not on the joint pro-\
ductivity distribution of unemployed and employed workers over all occupations.\
An occupation can be segmented into many labor markets, one for each pair (z,x)\
such that workers in different markets do not congest each other in the matching\
process. Each of these (z,x)labor market has the Diamond-Mortensen-Pissarides\
(DMP) structure. Each has a constant returns to scale matching function which gov-\
erns the meetings of unemployed workers and vacancies within a market. We as-\
sume that all these markets have the same random matching technology. Each mar-\
ket exhibits free entry of \uc0\u64257 rms, where posting a vacancy costs kper period. Once\
an unemployed worker\'92s zorxchanges, his relevant labor market changes accord-\
ingly.16\
Searching across occupations Instead of searching for jobs in their own occu-\
pation, unemployed workers can decide to search for jobs in different occupations.\
This comes at a per-period cost cand entails re-drawing their z-productivity. Work-\
ers rationally expect their initial career match in any occupation to be a draw from\
F(.), the ergodic distribution associated with the Markov process F(zt+1jzt). The\
i.i.d. nature of the re-draws allows us to capture that some occupational movers\
end up changing occupations again after a subsequent jobless spell, as suggested by\
the repeat mobility patterns documented earlier.\
Differences in poimply that workers are not indifferent from which occupation\
the draw of zcomes from. To capture that in the data excess mobility is much larger\
than net mobility and hence that workers not always specialise their search in the\
occupation with the highest po, we model the choice of occupation following an im-\
perfectly directed search approach in the spirit of Fallick (1993). During a period,\
workers have a unit of search effort to investigate their employment prospects in the\
remaining occupations. They can only receive at most one new draw of zper period\
16In Supplementary Appendix C we show that a competitive search model in the spirit of Men-\
zio and Shi (2010) endogenously generates this sub-market structure, such that in equilibrium un-\
employed workers with current productivities (z,x)decide to participate only in the (z,x)market.\
Here we proceed by assuming the sub-market structure from the start in order to reduce unneces-\
sary complexity in the analysis. The allocations and equilibrium outcomes are the same under both\
approaches.\
15\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 17 of 269]\
without recall. A worker must then chose how much effort to allocate to each one\
of these occupations to maximise the probability of receiving a z. Let s\'98odenote the\
search effort devoted to occupation \'98osuch that \'e5\'98o2Os\'98o=1, where Odenotes the\
set of remaining occupations. Each s\'98omaps into a probability of receiving the new\
zfrom occupation \'98o. Conditional on switching from o, this probability is denoted\
bya(s\'98o;o), where a(.;o)is a continuous, weakly increasing and weakly concave\
function of swith a(0;o) =0. The concavity creates a trade-off between concentrat-\
ing search effort on desirable occupations and the total probability that the worker\
draws some z, given by \'e5\'98o2Oa(s\'98o;o)1. With probability 1 \'e5\'98o2Oa(s\'98o;o)noz\
is received and the above process is repeated the following period.\
If a zis received, the worker must sit out one period unemployed in the new\
occupation \'98obefore deciding whether to sample another zfrom a different occupa-\
tion.17If the worker decides to sample once again, the above process is repeated.\
However, if the worker decides to accept the z, he starts with human capital x1in\
the new occupation. The worker\'92s zand xthen evolve as described above.\
3.2 Agents\'92 Decisions\
The timing of the events is summarised as follows. At the beginning of the period\
the new values of A,p,zand xare realised. The period is then subdivided into four\
stages: separation, reallocation, search and matching, and production. To reduce\
notation complexity, we leave implicit the time subscripts, denoting the following\
period with a prime.\
Worker\'92s Problem Consider an unemployed worker currently characterised by\
(z,x,o). The value function of this worker at the beginning of the production stage\
is given by\
WU(w)=b+bEw0\
max\
r(w0)n\
r(w0)R(w0)+(1r(w0))h\
l(q(w0))WE(w0)+(1l(q(w0)))WU(w0)io\
,\
(1)\
where q(w)denotes the ratio between vacancies and unemployed workers currently\
in labor market (z,x)of occupation o, with l(.)the associated job \uc0\u64257 nding probabil-\
17This implies that the worker is forced to move to the new occupation even if the zturns out to be\
low enough. To further simplify we also assume that after the worker is in the new occupation, he\
can sample z-productivities from previous occupations. This way we avoid carrying around in the\
state space the histories of occupations ever visited by a worker.\
16\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 18 of 269]\
ity. The value of unemployment consists of the \uc0\u64258 ow bene\u64257 t of unemployment b,\
plus the discounted expected value of being unemployed at the beginning of next\
period\'92s reallocation stage, where r(w)takes the value of one when the worker de-\
cides to search across occupations and zero otherwise. The worker\'92s decision to\
reallocate is captured by the choice between the expected net gains from drawing a\
new \'98zin another occupation and the expected payoff of remaining in the current oc-\
cupation. The latter is given by the expression within the inner squared brackets in\
(1). The term R(w)denotes the expected net value of searching across occupations\
and is given by\
R(w) =max\
S(w)\
\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(s\'98o(w))Zz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z) + ( 1\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(s\'98o(w)))\'88WU(w)c\
,\
(2)\
where \'88WU(w) = b+bEw0R(w0),Sdenote a vector of s\'98ofor all \'98o2Oand the\
maximization is subject to s\'98o2[0, 1]and\'e5\'98o2Os\'98o=1. The \uc0\u64257 rst term denotes\
the expected value of drawing a new zand losing any accumulated human capi-\
tal, while the second term denotes the value of not obtaining a zand waiting until\
the following period to search across occupations once again. The formulation of\
\'88WU(w)is helpful as it implies that R(w)andfs\'98ogbecome independent of z. It is\
through R(w)that expected labor market conditions in other occupations affect the\
value of unemployment, and indirectly the value of employment.\
Now consider an employed worker currently characterised by (z,x,o). The ex-\
pected value of employment at the beginning of the production stage, given wage\
w(w), is\
WE(w) =w(w) +bEw0h\
max\
d(w0)f(1d(w0))WE(w0) +d(w0)WU(w0)gi\
. (3)\
The second term describes the worker\'92s option to quit into unemployment in next\
period\'92s separation stage. The job separation decision is summarised in d(w0), such\
that it take the value of dwhen WE(w0)WU(w0)and the value of one otherwise.\
Firm\'92s Problem Consider a \uc0\u64257 rm posting a vacancy in sub-market (z,x)in oc-\
cupation oat the start of the search and matching stage. The expected value of a\
vacancy solves the entry equation\
V(w) =k+q(q(w))J(w), (4)\
17\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 19 of 269]\
where q(.)denotes \uc0\u64257 rms\'92 probability of \u64257 nding an unemployed worker and J(w)\
denotes the expected value of a \uc0\u64257 lled job. Free entry implies that V(w) = 0 for all\
those sub-markets that yield a q(w)>0, and V(w)0 for all those sub-markets\
that yield a q(w)0. In the former case, the entry condition simpli\uc0\u64257 es (4) to k=\
q(q(w))J(w).\
Now consider a \uc0\u64257 rm employing a worker currently characterized by (z,x,o)at\
wage w(w). The expected lifetime discounted pro\uc0\u64257 t of this \u64257 rm at the beginning of\
the production stage can be described recursively as\
J(w) =y(A,po,z,x)w(w) +bEw0h\
max\
s(w0)n\
(1s(w0))J(w0) +s(w0)V(w0)oi\
, (5)\
where s(w0)takes the value of dwhen J(w0)V(w0)and the value of one other-\
wise.\
Wages We assume that wages are determined by Nash Bargaining. Consider a\
\uc0\u64257 rm-worker match currently characterised by (z,x,o)such that it generates a posi-\
tive surplus. Nash Bargaining implies that the wage, w(w), solves\
(1z)\
WE(w)WU(w)\
=z\
J(w)V(w)\
, (6)\
where z2[0, 1]denotes the worker\'92s exogenous bargaining power. This guarantees\
that separation decisions are jointly ef\uc0\u64257 cient, d(w) =s(w).\
In what follows we impose a Cobb-Douglas matching function and the Hosios\
condition, such that 1 z=h, where hdenotes the elasticity of the job \uc0\u64257 nding\
probability with respect to labor market tightness within sub-market (z,x). In our\
framework this will guarantee \uc0\u64257 rms post the ef\u64257 cient number of vacancies within\
sub-markets and the constraint ef\uc0\u64257 ciency of our decentralized economy (see Sup-\
plementary Appendix C).\
3.3 Equilibrium and Characterization\
In a BRE outcomes can be derived in two steps. Decision rules are \uc0\u64257 rst solved us-\
ing (1)-(5). We then fully describe the dynamics of the workers\'92 distribution, using\
the workers\'92 \uc0\u64258 ow equations. To prove existence and uniqueness we build on the\
proofs of Menzio and Shi (2010) but incorporate the value of reallocation across oc-\
cupations and show it preserves the block recursive structure. The formal de\uc0\u64257 nition\
of the BRE is relegated to Supplementary Appendix C, where we also present the\
18\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 20 of 269]\
Figure 4: Relative Positions of the Reservation Productivities\
(a)zr>zs\
Employed workers,\
Unemployed workers reallocate\
All workers reallocate\
A\
z\
zs(x, o, A, p )\
Employed workers,\
Search Unemployment\
zr(x, o, A, p )(b)zs>zr\
Rest unemployment\
All workers reallocate\
A\
z\
zs(x, o, A, p )\
zr(x, o, A, p )\
Employed workers, search unemployment\
derivation of the \uc0\u64258 ow equations and the proofs of all the results of this section.\
Existence LetM(w)WE(w) +J(w)denote the joint value of the match. To\
prove existence and uniqueness of the BRE we de\uc0\u64257 ne an operator Tthat is shown to\
mapfM(w),WU(w),R(w)gfrom the appropriate functional space into itself, with\
a \uc0\u64257 xed point that implies a BRE. The key step to proof ef\u64257 ciency is to ensure that a\
worker\'92s value of searching across occupations coincides with the planner\'92s value\
of making the worker search across occupations.\
Proposition 1. Given F (z0jz)<F(z0j\'98z)for all z ,z0when z >\'98z: (i) a BRE exists and it is\
the unique equilibrium; and (ii) the BRE is constrained ef\uc0\u64257 cient.\
Characterization The decision to separate from a job and the decision to search\
across occupations can be characterised by z-productivity cutoffs, which are them-\
selves functions of A,p,oand x. The job separation cutoff function, zs(.)is ob-\
tained when the match surplus becomes zero, M(w)WU(w) = 0. In contrast\
to Mortensen and Pissarides (1994), zrefers to the worker\'92s idiosyncratic produc-\
tivity in an occupation and not to a match-speci\uc0\u64257 c productivity with a \u64257 rm. This\
difference implies that when the worker becomes unemployed, his zis not lost or is\
reset when re-entering employment in the same occupation. Instead, the worker\'92s\
zcontinuous evolving during the unemployment spell. It is only when the worker\
searches across occupations that he can reset his z. This occurs if and only if z<\
zr(.), where the reallocation cutoff function zr(.)solves R(w) =WU(w).\
The relative position and the slopes of zr(.)and zs(.)are crucial determinants\
of the long-run and cyclical outcomes in our model. To show this, we \uc0\u64257 rst discuss\
19\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 21 of 269]\
the implications of their relative position and then those of their slopes. Figure 4a\
illustrates the case in which zr>zsfor all A, holding constant p,oand x. Here\
having a job makes a crucial difference on whether a worker stays or leaves his\
occupation. When an employed worker has a z2[zs,zr), the match surplus is\
enough to keep him attached to his occupation. For an unemployed worker with a\
zin the same interval, however, the probability of \uc0\u64257 nding a job is suf\u64257 ciently small\
to make searching across occupations the more attractive option, even though this\
worker could generate a positive match surplus if he were to become employed\
in his pre-separation occupation. For values of z<zs, all workers search across\
occupations. For values of zzr, \uc0\u64257 rms post vacancies and workers remain in their\
occupations, \uc0\u64258 owing between unemployment and employment as in the canonical\
DMP model.\
Figure 4b instead shows the case in which zs>zrfor all A. Workers who en-\
dogenously separate into unemployment, at least initially, do not search across oc-\
cupations, while \uc0\u64257 rms do not create vacancies in sub-markets associated with values\
ofz<zs. These two cutoffs create an area of inaction, in which workers become rest\
unemployed during the time their zlies in [zr,zs): they face a very low \'96 in the model\
(starkly) zero \'96 contemporaneous job \uc0\u64257 nding probability, but still choose to remain\
attached to their occupations. The stochastic nature of the zprocess, however, im-\
plies that these workers face a positive expected job \uc0\u64257 nding probability for the fol-\
lowing period. Only after the worker\'92s zhas declined further, such that z<zr,\
the worker searches across occupations. For values of zzs, the associated sub-\
markets function as in the DMP model.\
An unemployed worker is considered search unemployed during the time in which\
hiszzs, as in the associated labor markets \uc0\u64257 rms are currently posting vacancies.\
A worker whose current z<zris considered reallocation unemployed only during\
the time in which he is trying to \uc0\u64257 nd another occupation that offers him a z>zr.\
Once he \uc0\u64257 nds such an occupation, he continues his unemployment spell potentially\
with periods in search and rest unemployment, depending on the relative position\
ofzsand zrand the initial draw and evolution of his zin such an occupation. The\
stochastic nature of the zprocess implies that search, rest and reallocation unem-\
ployment are not \uc0\u64257 xed characteristics, but transient states during an unemployment\
20\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 22 of 269]\
spell. Therefore, to be consistent with the analysis of Section 2, an occupational mover\
is a worker who left his old occupation, went through a spell of unemployment\
(which could encompass all three types of unemployment) and found a job in a\
different occupation.\
A key decision for an unemployed worker is whether to remain in his occupa-\
tion, waiting for his zto improve, or to search across occupations, drawing a new\
z. Periods of rest unemployment arise when the option value of waiting in unem-\
ployment is suf\uc0\u64257 ciently large. However, search frictions imply that there is also an\
option value associated with waiting in employment in an existing job match. In\
the face of irreversible match destruction, workers remain employed at lower out-\
put levels relative to the frictionless case because of potential future improvements\
in their z-productivities. This drives the separation cutoff function down. The ten-\
sion lies in that these two waiting motives work against each other. Which one\
dominates depends on parameter values.\
Using a simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of the model without aggregate or occupation-speci\u64257 c\
shocks, we show that the difference zszrincreases when c,borxincrease (see\
Supplementary Appendix C.1). Although it is intuitive that a higher corxreduces\
zrby making occupational mobility more costly, they also reduce zsby increasing\
the match surplus and making employed workers less likely to separate. We show\
that, overall, the \uc0\u64257 rst effect dominates. A rise in bdecreases zrby lowering the\
effective cost of waiting, while decreasing the match surplus by increasing WU(.)\
and hence increasing zs, pushing towards rest unemployment. We also show that\
a higher degree of persistence in the zprocess decreases zszras it decreases the\
option value of waiting.\
Figure 4 shows the case of countercyclical job separation decisions ( \'b6zs(.)/\'b6A<\
0) and procyclical occupational mobility decisions ( \'b6zr(.)/\'b6A>0), as suggested by\
the data. The relative position of zsand zris an important determinant of the cycli-\
cality of occupational mobility decisions. Using a simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of the model\
without occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c shocks, we show that when zs>zrone obtains pro-\
cyclical occupational mobility decisions without the need of complementarities in\
the production function (see Supplementary Appendix C.1). This arises as with\
search frictions wages and job \uc0\u64257 nding probabilities increase with A, and comple-\
21\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 23 of 269]\
ment each other to increase the expected value of occupational mobility (relative\
more than in the frictionless case). In addition, the presence of rest unemployment\
reduces the opportunity cost of mobility, making the latter less responsive to A.\
This occurs as any change in Adoes not immediately affect the utility \uc0\u64258 ow of the\
rest unemployed.\
The relative position of zsand zralso affects the cyclicality of job separation deci-\
sions. When zszr>0 is suf\uc0\u64257 ciently large, job separations decisions mainly re\u64258 ect\
whether or not an employed worker should wait unemployed in his current occupa-\
tion for potential improvements in his z. As occupational mobility is uncertain and\
only a potential future outcome, it is discounted. Thus rest unemployment moder-\
ates the feedback of procyclical occupational mobility decisions on the cyclicality of\
job separation decisions.\
4 Quantitative Analysis\
As the relative position and the slope of the zsand zrcutoffs can only be fully de-\
termined through quantitative analysis, we now turn to estimate the model and\
investigate its resulting cyclical properties.\
4.1 Calibration Strategy\
We set the model\'92s period to a week and the discount factor b= (1d)/(1+r)\
is such that the exit probability, d, is chosen to match an average working life of 40\
years and ris chosen such that bmatches an annual real interest rate of 4%. We\
target data based on major occupational groups and task-based categories as done\
in Section 2. Our classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model allows us to easily correct for aggregate\
and occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c levels of miscoding by imposing the G-correction matrix on\
simulated worker occupational \uc0\u64258 ows at the required level of aggregation.\
Aggregate and occupation productivities The production function is assumed\
multiplicative and given by yo=Apoxzfor all o2O, chosen to keep close to a\
\'93Mincerian\'94 formulation. The logarithm of aggregate productivity, ln At, follows an\
AR(1) process with persistence and dispersion parameters rAandsA. For a given\
occupation o, the logarithm of the occupation-wide productivity is given by ln po,t=\
lnpo+eolnAt, where podenotes this occupation\'92s constant productivity level and\
eoits cyclical loading. This formulation implies that different occupations can have\
22\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 24 of 269]\
different sensitivities to the aggregate shock and hence different relative attractive-\
ness to workers over the business cycle.18We consider occupation-wide produc-\
tivity differences at the level of task-based categories, O=fNRC ,RC,NRM ,RMg.\
All major occupations within a task-based category o2Othen share the same po,t.\
This approach not only simpli\uc0\u64257 es the computational burden by reducing the state\
space, but is also consistent with the evidence presented in Figure 2 showing that\
within the majority of task-based categories all major occupations\'92 net \uc0\u64258 ows exhibit\
the same sign. To further simplify we normalize the employment weighted average\
ofpoand of eoacross o2Oto one.\
Worker heterogeneity within occupations The logarithm of the worker\'92s id-\
iosyncratic productivity, ln zt, is also modelled as an AR(1) process with persistence\
and dispersion parameters rzandsz. The normalization parameter znorm moves the\
entire distribution of z-productivities such that measured economy-wide produc-\
tivity averages one. Occupational human capital is parametrized by a three-level\
process h=1, 2, 3, where x1=1. Employed workers stochastically increase their\
human capital one level after \uc0\u64257 ve years on average. With probability gdthe human\
capital of an unemployed worker depreciates one level until it reaches x1.\
To allow for differences in the separation rates across young and prime-age work-\
ers that are not due to the interaction between zand x, we differentiate the exoge-\
nous job separation probability between low (x1)and high human capital (x2,x3)\
workers: dLanddH. The matching function within each sub-market (z,x)is given\
bym(q) =qh.\
Search across occupations The probability that a worker in a major occupation\
within task-based category oreceives the new zfrom a different major occupation\
in task-based \'98ois parametrized as a(s\'98o;o) =a(1n)\
o,\'98osn\
\'98ofor all o,\'98opairs in Oand s\'98o2\
[0, 1]. The parameter n2[0, 1]governs the responsiveness of the direction of search\
across occupations due to differences in po. The parameter ao,\'98ois a scaling factor\
such that \'e5\'98o2Oao,\'98o=1. It captures the extent to which an unemployed worker in\
task-based category ohas access to job opportunities in another task-based category\
\'98o. Since \'e5\'98o2Oa(s\'98o;o)1, this formulation implies that if a worker in owants to\
18The evidence presented in Supplementary Appendix B.3 suggests that our approach is consistent\
with the observed cyclical behavior of net occupational \uc0\u64258 ows, where the majority of occupations\
exhibit a very similar cyclical pattern across several recession/expansion periods.\
23\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 25 of 269]\
obtain a new zwith probability one, he will choose s\'98o=ao,\'98ofor all \'98o2O. If a worker\
wants to take into account current occupation-wide productivity differences, he will\
choose s\'98o6=ao,\'98ofor at least some \'98o. The cost of doing so is the possibility of not\
receiving a new zat all (i.e. \'e5\'98o2Oa(s\'98o;o)<1) and paying cagain the following\
period. The concavity parameter ndetermines the extent of this cost, with higher\
values of nleading to lower probabilities of not receiving a new z.\
The formulation of a(s\'98o;o)is convenient for it implies that the optimal value of\
s\'98ocan be solved explicitly,\
s\
\'98o(w) =e1\
1nlog[a(1n)\
o,\'98o(Rz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z)\'88WU(w))]\
\'e5\'98o2Oe1\
1nlog[a(1n)\
o,\'98o(Rz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z)\'88WU(w))]\
with\'e5\'98o2Os\
\'98o(w) = 1 and takes a similar form as the choice probabilities obtained\
from a multinomial logit model.19Note that ao,\'98oappears inside the closed form and\
can freely shape bilateral \uc0\u64258 ows between occupations. This leaves nfree to capture\
the responsiveness to cyclically changing occupation-wide productivities, which in\
turn allows us to capture net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows over the cycle. It also leaves free the\
persistent career match zprocess to drive excess mobility in a way that is consistent\
with the patterns documented in Section 2.20\
Since our data analysis covers three decades, we need to distinguish the ob-\
served long-run changes in the employment-size distribution from their cyclical\
19To derive this result note that for each s\'98o;oequation (2) yields the \uc0\u64257 rst order condition\
s\
\'98o(w) =hna(1n)\
o,\'98o\
mRz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z)\'88WU(w)i1/(1n)\
, where mis the multiplier of the con-\
straint \'e5\'98o2Os\
\'98o(w) = 1. Substituting out s\
\'98o(w)in the constraint and using the change of variable\
X1\
1/(1n)=e1\
1/(1n)log(X)leads to the above expression. See Carrillo-Tudela, et al. (2022) for a detailed\
discussion.\
20Many multi-sector models use the random utility model to drive excess mobility, where ad-\
ditive taste shocks are distributed i.i.d Type 1 Extreme Value (see Chodorow-Reich and Wieland,\
2020, Wiczer, 2015, Dvorkin, 2014 and Pilossoph, 2014, among others). In the most tractable of such\
settings, underlying gross \uc0\u64258 ows are constant at all times (e.g. Chodorow-Reich and Wieland, 2020).\
More generally, when the reallocation decision involves max o2OfUo(.) +eog, where Uo(.)is the value\
of being in occupation oandeois the taste shock, this imposes a symmetry. All mobile workers who\
are considering occupations in set Ohave the same distribution over the destinations in O, indepen-\
dently of where they originated. Here we want to explicitly break this symmetry to be consistent\
with the bilateral \uc0\u64258 ows of the transition matrix, a feature we can do through ao,\'98owithout giving\
up on a convenient closed form. Our formulation also decouples the cyclical responsiveness from\
the cross-sectional \uc0\u64258 ows, again without giving up on the closed form. In contrast, in the additive\
taste shock setting \uc0\u64257 tting cross-sectional patterns constrains the mobility response to cyclical shifts\
inUo(.): both dimensions rely on how differences in Uo(.)translate into differences in the cdf of eo\
(or a transformation of the latter).\
24\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 26 of 269]\
changes. For this we \uc0\u64257 rst externally calibrate the initial size distribution to match\
the one observed in the SIPP in 1984. This results in setting the employment propor-\
tions for NRC ,RC,NRM ,RM to 0.224, 0.292, 0.226 and 0.258, respectively, at the\
start of the simulation. This size distribution then changes over time due to unem-\
ployed workers\'92 mobility decisions. Let yodenote the exogenous probability that a\
new entrant is allocated to task-based category osuch that \'e5o2Oyo=1. This worker\
is then randomly allocated to a major occupation within the drawn task-based cate-\
gory at the point of entry, and is allowed to search across occupations to obtain \uc0\u64257 rst\
employment somewhere else.\
Simulated method of moments In the above parametrization [c,rz,sz,znorm]\
govern occupational mobility due to idiosyncratic reasons (excess mobility); [x2,\
x3,gd,dL,dH]govern differences in occupational human capital; [po,eo,ao,\'98o,n,yo]for\
allo,\'98o2fNRC ,RC,NRM ,RMggovern occupational mobility due to occupation-\
wide productivity differences (net mobility); and the remainder parameters [k,b,h,\
rA,sA]are shared with standard DMP calibrations. All these parameters are esti-\
mated by minimising the sum of squared distances between a set of model simu-\
lated moments and their data counterparts. For consistent measurement we gener-\
ate \'91pseudo-SIPP panels\'92 within one hundred time-windows each of 30 year length\
and follow the same procedures and de\uc0\u64257 nitions to construct the moments in data\
and in model simulations.\
Figures 5a-5e and Table 2 show the set of moments used to recover these param-\
eters as well as the \uc0\u64257 t of the model. The calibrated model provides a very good\
\uc0\u64257 t to the data across all the targeted dimensions. The mobility-duration pro\u64257 les\
and survival functions primarily inform the excess mobility and the human capi-\
tal parameters. Employer separations patterns inform the parameters shared with\
DMP calibrations, except for the persistence and standard deviation of the aggre-\
gate productivity process, rAandsA, which are informed by the corresponding\
parameters of the series of output per worker ( outpw ) obtained from the BLS, routpw\
andsoutpw , and measured quarterly for the period 1983-2014.21The net mobility\
21We cannot set rAandsAdirectly because the composition of the economy changes with the cycle\
due to workers\'92 endogenous separation and reallocation decisions. We measure output in the model\
and data on a quarterly basis (aggregating the underlying weekly process in the model). For the\
data, we HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered the series of (log) output per worker for the period 1970 to 2016, with a \u64257 ltering\
parameter of 1600. Then, we use the persistence and the variance parameters of this series calculated\
25\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 27 of 269]\
patterns inform the occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c productivities, occupation distribution for\
new entrants and the imperfect direct search technology. The latter adds a num-\
ber of extra parameters to the estimation, particularly the scale parameters ao,\'98o. As\
mentioned above these allow us to capture very well the relevant differences ob-\
served across occupations. We now present the arguments that justify the choice of\
moments, keeping in mind that all parameters need to be estimated jointly.\
4.2 Gross occupational mobility and unemployment duration\
A worker\'92s attachment to his pre-separation occupation during an unemployment\
spell depends on the properties of the zprocess, the human capital process and\
the reallocation cost c. The aggregate and age-group mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les de-\
picted in Figures 5a and 5b (see also Section 2) play an important role in informing\
these parameters.\
The aggregate mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le contains information about candrz. As\
shown in Lemma 1 (see Supplementary Appendix C.1) changes in the overall level\
of mobility lead to opposite changes in c. The slope of the pro\uc0\u64257 le informs rzpri-\
marily through the time it takes unemployed workers to start searching across oc-\
cupations. A lower rzincreases the relative number of unemployed workers decid-\
ing to reallocate at shorter durations, decreasing the slope of the model\'92s mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Lemma 1, however, also implies that a lower rzreduces overall\
mobility (ceteris paribus), creating a tension between candrzsuch that an increase\
inrzmust go together with an increase in cto \uc0\u64257 t the observed mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le as depicted in Figure 5a.\
To help identify szwe match instead the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les of young and\
prime-aged workers. For given values of x, a larger value of szleads to a smaller\
importance of human capital differences relative to zdifferences in workers\'92 output.\
This brings the simulated occupational mobility patterns across age groups closer\
together, creating a negative relationship between szand the difference between\
the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les of young and prime-aged workers. Figure 5b shows\
that the model is able to resolve this tension very well. The model also remains\
fully consistent with the much larger contribution of excess mobility relative to net\
mobility in accounting for the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le at all durations (see Figure\
over the period 1983-2014, which is the period that the SIPP and the BLS series overlap.\
26\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 28 of 269]\
Figure 5: Data and Model Comparison (including Targeted Moments)\
(a) Mob./Unemp. Duration (All)\
0.30.40.50.60.7Proportion Moving Occupation\
(MOG) Upon Exit U\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTarget, Data Model\
Uncorrected Mobility, Data Model\
Mobility, Data Model (b) Mob./Duration Young, Prime\
0.30.40.50.60.7\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentYoung Unemployed  Prime-Aged \
Target - Data Target - Data \
Target - Model Target - Model \
Mobility - Model Mobility - Model (c) Cycl. Mobility/Duration\
0.30.40.50.60.7\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTimes of High U  Times of Low U \
Target - Data Target - Data\
Target - Model Target - Model\
(d) Survival Pro\uc0\u64257 le, All\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
0.00.20.40.60.81.0Survival in Unemployment\
2 6 10 14 18\
Months in UnemploymentTarget, Data\
Target, Model (e) Survival Young, Prime\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
0.00.20.40.60.81.0\
2 6 10 14 18\
Months in UnemploymentYoung: Target, Data Model\
Prime: Target, Data Model (f) Survival Movers, Stayers\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
Survival, log scale (lighter colors)0.00.20.40.60.81.0\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentMovers: Model Data\
Stayers: Model Data\
3a, Online Appendix B.1) .\
The parameters x2and x3are informed by the observed \uc0\u64257 ve and ten-year returns\
to occupational experience. As it is dif\uc0\u64257 cult to accurately estimate the later with the\
SIPP , we use the OLS estimates for 1-digit occupations reported in Kambourov and\
Manovskii (2009) from the PSID and estimate the same OLS regression in simulated\
data.22\
Calibrations with or without occupational human capital depreciation yield very\
similar long-run moments (see Online Appendix B.2). This occurs as the grad-\
ual loss of occupational attachment with unemployment duration underlying the\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le can be generated by human capital depreciation or the z\
process. To differentiate these two forces we use the cyclical shift of the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. During recessions longer unemployment spells imply that ex-\
pected depreciation is higher, making employed workers more attached to their jobs\
22We use the OLS estimates because occupation selection occurs both in the model and in the\
data, where selection arises as measured returns are a result of two opposing forces: human capital\
acquisition and z-productivity mean reversion.\
27\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 29 of 269]\
Table 2: Targeted Moments. Data and Model Comparison\
Panel A: Economy-wide moments\
Moment Model Data Moment Model Data\
Agg. output per worker mean 0.999 1.000 Rel. separation rate young/prime-aged 2.002 1.994\
Agg. output per worker persistence, routpw 0.764 0.753 Rel. separation rate recent hire/all 5.169 4.944\
Agg. output per worker st. dev., soutpw 0.009 0.009 Prob (unemp. within 3 yr for empl.) 0.151 0.122\
Mean unemployment 0.036 0.035 Empirical elasticity matching function 0.532 0.500\
Task-based gross occ. mobility rate 0.280 0.289 5-year OLS return to occ. tenure 0.143 0.154\
Repeat mobility: occ. stay after stay 0.598 0.634 10-year OLS return to occ. tenure 0.219 0.232\
Occ. mobility young/prime-aged 1.173 1.163 Average u. duration movers/stayers 1.184 1.139\
Occ. mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les Fig 5a,b,c U. survival pro\u64257 les Fig 5d,e\
Panel B: Occupation-Speci\uc0\u64257 c Moments, Long-run\
Proportion Net mobility Transition Matrix\
empl. size o2014 Mean Model Data\
Model Data Model Data NRC RC NRM RM NRC RC NRM RM\
NRC 0.337 0.328 0.008 0.006 0.763 0.163 0.055 0.018 0.721 0.167 0.084 0.028\
RC 0.246 0.258 0.007 0.000 0.175 0.681 0.108 0.036 0.078 0.680 0.168 0.074\
NRM 0.260 0.260 -0.027 -0.021 0.034 0.064 0.760 0.141 0.020 0.115 0.710 0.155\
RM 0.157 0.154 0.011 0.015 0.037 0.069 0.246 0.647 0.013 0.066 0.188 0.733\
Panel C: Occupation-Speci\uc0\u64257 c Moments, Cyclical\
Net mobility Dexprec\
Recessions Expansions Rec-Exp (in\uc0\u64258 ow o/all \u64258 ows) #UD o,u/#UD avg,u\
Model Data Model Data Model Data Model Data Model Data\
NRC -0.008 -0.011 -0.009 -0.002 0.002 -0.008 -0.003 -0.010 0.988 1.096\
RC -0.009 -0.005 -0.005 -0.001 -0.003 -0.005 0.004 0.003 1.055 1.026\
NRM 0.033 0.033 0.020 0.011 0.013 0.022 -0.028 -0.054 0.890 0.759\
RM -0.017 -0.017 -0.006 -0.008 -0.011 -0.009 0.026 0.060 1.072 1.119\
and unemployed workers less attached to their occupations. At the same time low\
aggregate productivity interacted with ztypically makes employed workers less at-\
tached to their jobs and unemployed workers more attached to their occupations. To\
inform this tension and recover gdwe \uc0\u64257 t the mobility-duration pro\u64257 le in recessions\
and expansions as depicted in Figure 5c.\
The unemployment survival function depicted in Figure 5d additionally inform\
thezand xprocesses. The extent of duration dependence is linked to the proper-\
ties of the zprocess (and the importance of search frictions) through its effect on\
the extent of true duration dependence and dynamic selection in our model, where\
the latter is driven by worker heterogeneity in xand zat the moment of separa-\
tion. We use the cumulative survival rates at intervals of 4 months to reduce the\
seam bias found in the SIPP . The model also reproduces well the associated hazard\
functions (see Figures 1 and 2, Online Appendix B.1). The model captures that dura-\
tion dependence is different across occupational stayers and movers and across age\
28\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 30 of 269]\
groups, where duration dependence is stronger among occupational stayers relative\
to movers and among young relative to prime-aged workers. Young occupational\
stayers have especially high job \uc0\u64257 nding at low durations, which decrease faster with\
duration. In addition, the model replicates the (untargeted) unemployment dura-\
tion distribution among all workers and separately by age groups. In particular the\
empirical amount of long-term unemployment that occurs in the face of high oc-\
cupational mobility (see Table 1, Online Appendix B.1). Finally, we target the ratio\
between the average unemployment durations of occupational movers and stayers.\
The elasticity of the matching function, h, at the sub-market (z,x)level is ob-\
tained by estimating through OLS a log-linear relation between the aggregate job\
\uc0\u64257 nding rate (the proportion of all unemployed workers in the economy who have\
a job next month) and aggregate labor market tightness (aggregate vacancies over\
aggregate unemployed) across quarters, in simulated data. The estimated elasticity\
\'88his targeted to the standard value of 0.5 and allows us to indirectly infer h.\
4.3 Employer separations\
A worker\'92s attachment to employment depends on the size of search frictions. A\
higher value of kleads to stronger search frictions through its effect on \uc0\u64257 rm entry\
and labor market tightness. Larger search frictions push down the zscutoff relative\
tozr, reducing the extent of endogenous separations.23Therefore to inform k(and\
the relative position of zsand zr) we use the proportion of separations observed\
within a year of workers leaving unemployment relative to the overall yearly sep-\
aration rate (\'93Rel. separation rate recent hire/all\'94) and the concentration of unem-\
ployment spells over a SIPP panel among the subset of workers who start employed\
at the beginning of the panel (\'93Prob (unemp. within 3yr for empl.)\'94). The proba-\
23Intuitively, note that with zs<zrand a persistent z-process, workers who endogenously sepa-\
rate will immediately change occupation (see Figure 4). Since these workers will be above their zr\
cutoffs in the new occupation, they face a lower risk of further endogenous separations damping\
down this margin. However, with zs>zrworkers who endogenously separate and managed to be-\
come re-employed in the same occupation remain close to zs, facing once again a high job separation\
probability. Among those who changed occupations, there will still be a mass of workers close to\
their zscutoffs who face a high risk of future job separation. This leads to a larger amount of endoge-\
nous separations for both stayers and movers. As shown below, in the calibrated model zs>zrand\
the hazard rate of job separations among new hires out of unemployment is greater for occupational\
stayers, 0.037, than for occupational movers, 0.027, as suggested by the previous arguments. This is\
qualitatively consistent with SIPP data, where we \uc0\u64257 nd a hazard rate among new hires of 0.026 for\
stayers and 0.024 for movers.\
29\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 31 of 269]\
bility that an occupational stayer becomes an occupational mover in the next unem-\
ployment spell (\'93Repeat mobility\'94) also informs endogenous separations and how\
these relate to occupational mobility. Although not shown here, the model is also\
consistent with the probability that an occupational mover remains a mover in the\
next unemployment spell, as documented in Section 2.4.\
Given the job-\uc0\u64257 nding moments, the overall job separation rate follows from tar-\
geting the average unemployment rate. As we focus on those who held a job pre-\
viously, we use the most direct counterpart and construct the unemployment rate\
only for those who were employed before and satis\uc0\u64257 ed our de\u64257 nition of unemploy-\
ment (see Section 2). Note that this unemployment rate (3.6%) is lower than the BLS\
unemployment rate, but we \uc0\u64257 nd it responsible for more than 0.75 for every one per-\
centage point change in the BLS unemployment rate (see Online Appendix B.1 and\
Supplementary Appendix B.7 for details), consistent with the results of Hornstein\
(2013), Fujita and Moscarini (2017) and Ahn and Hamilton (2020).\
The ratio of separation rates between young and prime-aged workers (\'93Rel. sep-\
aration rate young/prime-aged\'94) as well as their survival functions in Figure 5e in-\
form dL,dHand b. The extent of separations for young and prime-aged workers also\
informs us about bthrough the positions of the zscutoffs of low and high human\
capital workers relative to the average of these workers\'92 productivities.\
4.4 Net occupational mobility\
Variation over the business cycle can naturally inform the loading parameters eo. We\
target the level of net mobility each task-based category exhibits in recessions and\
expansions (\'93Net mobility o,Recessions and Net mobility o,Expansions \'94) as well as\
their implied difference (\'93Net mobility o,Rec-Exp \'94). We also regress (for each o) the\
completed (log) unemployment durations of those workers whose pre-separation\
task-based category was oon the (log) unemployment rate and a time trend, and\
target the ratio between the estimated unemployment duration elasticity and the av-\
erage elasticity across task-based categories, #UD o,u/#UD avg,u(see Online Appendix\
B.1 for details). The advantage of this approach is that it allows us to leave untar-\
geted the cyclicality of aggregate unemployment, which we separately evaluate in\
Section 5. To inform the values of powe target the average net mobility level of each\
o(\'93Net mobility o,Mean \'94).\
30\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 32 of 269]\
To recover nwe exploit the observed differences in the cyclicality of in\uc0\u64258 ows\
across task-based categories. As nincreases, workers should be more sensitive (ce-\
teris paribus) to cyclical differences in powhen choosing occupations, making the\
in\uc0\u64258 ows to occupations with the higher porespond stronger. To capture how cycli-\
cally sensitive are the in\uc0\u64258 ows we compute, separately for expansions and recessions,\
the ratio of in\uc0\u64258 ows into task-based category oover the sum of all \u64258 ows. For each o\
we target the difference between the expansion and recession ratios, Dexprec(in\uc0\u64258 ow\
o/all \uc0\u64258 ows). To recover ao,\'98owe target the observed task-based occupation transition\
matrix. To recover yowe use the employment-size distribution of task-based cate-\
gories observed in 2014, the end of our sample period. We target the average gross\
mobility rate across task-based categories so that the model remains consistent with\
gross mobility at this level of aggregation.\
4.5 Estimated parameters\
Table 3 reports the resulting parameter values implied by the calibration. The es-\
timated value of brepresents about 80% of total average output, y. Vacancy cost k\
translates to a cost of about 30% of weekly output to \uc0\u64257 ll a job. The elasticity of the\
matching function in each sub-market (z,x)within an occupation is estimated to be\
h=0.24, about half of bh=0.5 when aggregating all sub-markets across occupa-\
tions.24\
The actual returns to occupational experience x2and x3are higher than the\
OLS returns, because occupational entrants select better z-productivities that typ-\
ically mean-revert over time, dampening the average evolution of composite xz-\
productivity. The parameter gdimplies that a year in unemployment costs an ex-\
perienced worker in expectation about 5% of his productivity. The estimated value\
24The difference between handbhis mainly due to the effect of aggregation across sub-markets that\
exhibit rest unemployment. Workers in episodes of rest unemployed entail no vacancies, have zero\
job \uc0\u64257 nding rates, do not congest matching in other sub-market, but are included in the aggregate\
number of unemployed. Hence they are included in the denominator of the aggregate labor market\
tightness and the aggregate job \uc0\u64257 nding rate. It can be shown that this creates a wedge between\
hand \'88h=0.5 that is governed by0.5h\
1h#\'88q,A=#us/u,A, where #\'88q,Aand#us/u,Adenote the cyclical\
elasticity of aggregate labor market tightness, \'88q, and the proportion of search unemployment over\
total unemployment, us/u, respectively. Since in the calibrated model both elasticities are positive,\
0.5h\
1hmust also be strictly positive and hence h<bh=0.5. In addition, each sub-market within an\
occupation has its own concave matching function and hence aggregating these concave functions\
across sub-markets also imply that the calibrated value of hwill further diverge from 0.5.\
31\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 33 of 269]\
Table 3: Calibrated Parameters\
Agg. prod. and search frictions rA sA b k h\
0.9985 0.0020 0.830 124.83 0.239\
Occ. human capital process x2x3gd dL dH\
1.171 1.458 0.0032 0.0035 0.0002\
Occupational mobility c rz sz znorm n\
7.604 0.9983 0.0072 0.354 0.04\
Occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c poeo yo ao,NRC ao,RC ao,NRM ao,RM\
Non-routine Cognitive 1.019 1.081 0.620 0.436 0.560 0.004 0.000\
Routine Cognitive 0.988 1.120 0.145 0.407 0.383 0.210 0.000\
Non-routine Manual 1.004 0.532 0.087 0.000 0.093 0.384 0.524\
Routine Manual 0.988 1.283 0.147 0.000 0.140 0.767 0.094\
ofcand the sampling process imply that upon starting a job in a new occupation, a\
worker has paid on average a reallocation cost of 15.18 weeks (or about 3.5 months)\
of output. This suggests that reallocation frictions are important and add to the\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant lose in occupational human capital when changing occupation.25\
The zprocess has a broadly similar persistence (at a weekly basis) as the aggre-\
gate shock process. Its larger variance implies there is much more dispersion across\
workers\'92 z-productivities than there is across values of A. They are also much more\
dispersed than occupation-wide productivities. For example, the max-min ratio of\
pois 1.13 (1.09) at the highest (lowest) value of A, where the RM task-based cate-\
gory is the most responsive to aggregate shocks and NRM the least. In contrast,\
the max-min ratio among z-productivities is 2.20. To gauge whether the dispersion\
across z-productivities is reasonable we calculate the implied amount of frictional\
wage dispersion using Hornstein et al. (2012) Mm ratio. These authors \uc0\u64257 nd an Mm\
between 1.46 and 1.90 using the PSID, while the estimated z-dispersion yields 1.41.\
The estimated value of nimplies that the ability of workers to access job opportu-\
nities in other task-based categories plays an important role in shaping the direction\
of their search. The estimated values of ao,\'98oimply that on average workers in NRC\
have a low probability of drawing a new zfrom manual occupations and vice versa;\
while workers in NRM and RM occupations mostly draw a new zfrom these same\
two categories, although drawing from RCis not uncommon. The value of nalso\
implies workers signi\uc0\u64257 cantly adjust their direction of search as a response to cycli-\
25The average reallocation cost is computed as the product of cand the number of times workers\
sample a new occupation, which is 1.996 times.\
32\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 34 of 269]\
Table 4: Business Cycle Statistics. Data (1983-2014) and Model\
VOLATILITY AND PERSISTENCE CORRELATIONS WITH U AND OUTPUT PER WORKER\
u v q s f outpw occm u v q s f outpw occm\
Data Data\
s 0.15 0.11 0.25 0.10 0.09 0.01 0.03 u 1.00 -0.95 -0.99 0.83 -0.86 -0.50 -0.56\
rt10.98 0.99 0.99 0.94 0.93 0.92 0.94 outpw 0.61 0.55 -0.43 0.40 1.00 0.46\
Full Model Full Model\
s 0.14 0.04 0.17 0.07 0.09 0.01 0.04 u 1.00 -0.66 -0.97 0.79 -0.89 -0.94 -0.85\
rt10.93 0.91 0.92 0.88 0.93 0.88 0.94 outpw 0.81 0.97 -0.91 0.94 1.00 0.85\
Excess Mobility Model Excess Mobility Model\
s 0.14 0.05 0.17 0.06 0.10 0.01 0.04 u 1.00 -0.72 -0.98 0.80 -0.89 -0.95 -0.87\
rt10.95 0.91 0.94 0.89 0.94 0.94 0.93 outpw 0.85 0.97 -0.90 0.95 1.00 0.89\
Note: All variables are obtained from the SIPP , except output per worker, obtained from the BLS, and the vacancy rate where we use the\
composite help-wanted index developed by Barnichon and Nekarda (2012). All times series are centered 5Q-MA series of quarterly data,\
smoothing out the discreteness in the relatively \uc0\u64258 at cutoffs (relative to the grid) and noisy observation of especially occupational mobility.\
The cyclical components of the (log) of these time series are obtained by using an HP \uc0\u64257 lter with parameter 1600. See Online Appendix B.1\
for more details and results without the 5Q-MA smoothing.\
cal differences in po. This is evidenced by the ability of the model to reproduce the\
observed cyclical changes in the net mobility patterns presented in Section 2 and\
Table 2. Taken together, these estimates show a high degree of directedness when\
workers search across task-based categories.\
5 Cyclical Unemployment Outcomes\
We now evaluate the cyclicality of aggregate unemployment and its duration distri-\
bution in the model, noting that these were not targeted in the estimation procedure.\
Our aim is to evaluate the importance of excess and net mobility in generating these\
patterns. We \uc0\u64257 rst present the implications of the full model as estimated above.\
Then we discuss the implications of a re-estimated version where we shut down\
the heterogeneity in occupation-wide productivities.26With a slight abuse of ter-\
minology, we label this version \'93excess mobility model\'94 as unemployed workers\'92\
occupational mobility decisions are based solely on the changing nature of their z-\
productivities and their interaction with Aand x. Online Appendix B.2 presents the\
estimation results of this model.\
Aggregate unemployment Table 4 shows the cyclical properties of the aggregate\
unemployment, vacancy, job \uc0\u64257 nding, job separation and gross occupational mobil-\
ity rates, computed from the data and the simulations. It shows that the full model\
is able to generate a countercyclical unemployment rate, together with a counter-\
26In this version the observed net mobility patterns can be imposed exogenously to keep the\
model\'92s gross occupational mobility patterns consistent with the evidence presented in Section 2\
and Supplementary Appendix B.\
33\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 35 of 269]\
cyclical job separation rate, procyclical job \uc0\u64257 nding and gross occupational mobility\
rates. Table 4 also shows that the cyclical volatilities and persistence of all these rates\
are very close to the data.\
This aggregate behavior is not driven by a higher cyclicality of young work-\
ers\'92 unemployment rate. In Online Appendix B.1 we show that the responsiveness\
of the unemployment rate to aggregate output per worker is slightly stronger for\
prime-aged workers than for young workers, leading to a countercyclical ratio of\
unemployment rates between young and prime-aged workers. Therefore, in the\
model the pool of unemployment shifts towards high human-capital, prime-aged\
workers during recessions, a feature noted by Mueller (2017).\
The model also generates a strongly negatively-sloped Beveridge curve. The\
latter stands in contrast with the canonical DMP model, where it is known that en-\
dogenous separations hamper it from achieving a Beveridge curve consistent with\
the data. Because all poco-move with Aand the loadings eoonly create relative pro-\
ductivity differences, it also stands in contrasts with many multi-sector models that\
predict an upward sloping Beveridge curve. In these models unemployment \uc0\u64258 uc-\
tuations arise from the time-consuming reallocation of workers from sectors that\
experienced a negative shock to the ones that experienced a positive shock and lead\
to more vacancies created in the latter sector (see Chodorow-Reich and Wieland,\
2020, for a recent exception).\
Unemployment duration distribution Panel A in Table 5 evaluates the ability\
of the model to reproduce the shifts in the incomplete unemployment duration dis-\
tribution with respect to changes in the unemployment rate. It shows that the shares\
of unemployed workers by duration exhibit a very similar degree of responsiveness\
with cyclical unemployment as in the data. Crucially the elasticity measure shows\
that the model creates a strong response in the shares of unemployment at long\
durations. When using the semi-elasticity the model generates a nearly perfect \uc0\u64257 t.\
Thus, in our model as in the data cyclical changes in the aggregate unemployment\
rate are driven by particularly strong cyclical changes in long-term unemployment.\
An important force behind the increase in long-term unemployment during re-\
cessions is the larger increase in the unemployment duration of occupational movers\
relative to stayers. Panel B in Table 5 shows the cyclical responses of the average\
34\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 36 of 269]\
Table 5: Cyclicality of Duration Distribution\
Panel A: Cyclicality of Duration Distribution\
Elasticity wrt u HP-\uc0\u64257 lt. semi-el. wrt u\
Unemp. Full Excess Full Excess\
Duration Model Model Data Model Model Data\
12m -0.451 -0.449 -0.464 -0.155 -0.169 -0.167\
14m -0.321 -0.330 -0.363 -0.168 -0.184 -0.184\
58m 0.415 0.346 0.320 0.067 0.071 0.076\
912m 1.10 1.000 0.864 0.058 0.063 0.072\
>13m 1.817 1.742 1.375 0.044 0.050 0.043\
Panel B: Semi-Elasticity Duration wrt u, by Occupational Mobility\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Log ulinearly detrended\
Full Excess Full Excess\
Model Model Data Model Model Data\
Movers 2.8 3.0 3.2 2.2 2.3 2.0\
Stayers 1.3 1.5 2.5 1.2 1.2 1.7\
Note: The elasticities are constructed using the cyclical components (af-\
ter HP \uc0\u64257 ltering or linear detrending) of the shares of unemployed work-\
ers by duration category and the aggregate unemployment rate.Figure 6: Cyclical Shift of the U.\
Duration Distribution\
0.10.20.30.40.50.60.7Prop. Moving Occupation (MOG) Upon Exit U\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Duration DistributionTimes of Low U Times of High U\
Occ Mobility, Data Occ Mobility, Data \
Mobility, Model Mobility, Model\
    95% CI    95% CI\
unemployment duration of movers and stayers using different measures. Along\
all of these measures the model\'92s average unemployment duration of occupational\
movers increases more than that of stayers, an increase that is consistent with the\
data. Stayers\'92 durations respond somewhat less relative to the data, between 56%\
(relative to log HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment) and 71% (relative to linearly detrended\
unemployment). Relative to the lack of ampli\uc0\u64257 cation in conventional DMP models,\
this still constitutes a large response. As in the data, the lengthening of movers\'92\
unemployment duration contributes meaningfully to the increase in long-term un-\
employment during recessions.\
Figure 6 shows how the untargeted shift in unemployment durations combines\
with the targeted shift of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. At any percentile of the\
unemployment duration distribution, the model generates a drop in occupational\
mobility in recessions. By comparing the observations\'92 x-coordinates, this \uc0\u64257 gure\
also illustrates that the cyclical shift of the model\'92s duration distribution follows the\
data.\
Excess vs. net mobility A key insight from Tables 4 and 5 is that the afore-\
mentioned cyclical patterns are nearly identical to the ones generated by the excess\
mobility model. Online Appendix B.2 shows that this model also \uc0\u64257 ts very well the\
economy-wide targets described in Table 2 and the estimated values of the corre-\
35\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 37 of 269]\
sponding parameters are nearly identical to those in the full model. We further\
show that this conclusion holds when considering non-employment spells. This\
comparison demonstrates that allowing workers to chose in which occupations to\
search due to difference in pois not the reason why the model is able to replicate the\
cyclicality of unemployment or its duration distribution. Instead, it highlights the\
importance of workers\'92 idiosyncratic career shocks and its interaction with A.\
The two versions are successful in these dimensions because they yield simi-\
lar implications for search, rest and reallocation unemployment. Section 5.1 \uc0\u64257 rst\
demonstrates this claim using the excess mobility model. This shows in more detail\
the importance of having a persistent zprocess for the cyclical performance of the\
model. Section 5.2 shows that the same forces occur within each o, although modu-\
lated by differences in the level and cyclical responsiveness of poacross occupations.\
5.1 Main mechanism\
As argued in Section 3.3, the relative position and slopes of zsand zrhelp determine\
the long-run and cyclical implications of our model.\
Relative position of zsand zrFigure 7a depicts the cutoff functions generated\
by the excess mobility model calibration as a function Agiven x, where all occu-\
pations share the same cutoff functions. It shows that zszrfor nearly all Aand\
h=1, 2, 3.27This implies that periods of rest unemployment can occur together\
with periods of search and reallocation unemployment within the same unemploy-\
ment spell as Aand zevolve. Thus our calibration shows that the option value of\
waiting (as opposed to immediate reallocation) is important to explain the data. The\
importance of rest unemployment is grounded empirically in the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le and the unemployment survival functions.\
The moderate increase of occupational mobility with unemployment duration\
implies that even though overall mobility is high, there is still a sizeable proportion\
of unemployed workers that regain employment in their pre-separation occupations\
after 12 months. The model rationalizes this feature with a zprocess that, while per-\
27As predicted by our theory, workers with higher human capital are less likely to change oc-\
cupations relative to those with lower human capital. As zs(.,x3)<zs(.,x1)the average level of\
separations is also lower for high human capital workers (noting that dLanddHalso contribute to\
this difference). Once separated, high human capital workers spend on average a longer time in\
unemployment due to the larger distance between their zsand zrcutoffs.\
36\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 38 of 269]\
Figure 7: Cutoffs, Unemployment Distribution and Decomposition\
(a) Unemployment Distribution\
zs(A, x 1)\
zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (b) Employment Distribution\
zs(A, x 1)zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (c) Unemployment Decomposition\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
Reall.\
sistent, has still meaningful uncertainty. An occupational stayer, even after a long\
time unemployed, is interpreted as the realization of the worker\'92s earlier \'93hope\'94 for\
the recovery of his z-productivity.\
The presence of rest unemployment also rationalizes the moderate duration de-\
pendence observed in our unemployment sample and the relatively stronger du-\
ration dependence among occupational stayers. To illustrate this consider a set of\
workers with the same xwho just endogenously separated. Given zszrand a per-\
sistent zprocess, these workers will be initially close to zs. A small positive shock\
would then suf\uc0\u64257 ce to move them above zs, while only large negative shocks would\
take them below zr. Hence at short durations these workers face relatively high\
job \uc0\u64257 nding rates and, if re-employed, they will be most likely occupational stay-\
ers. Those who stayed unemployed for longer would have on average experienced\
further negative zshocks and would face a higher probability of crossing zr.\
Slope of zsand zrAs discussed in Section 3.3, the presence of rest unemploy-\
ment makes it more likely for the model to generate countercyclical job separation\
decisions and procyclical occupational mobility decisions. Figures 7a,b shows that\
in the calibration this is indeed the case; i.e. \'b6zs/\'b6A<0 and \'b6zr/\'b6A>0 for\
each x. This property implies that during recessions there is an increased scope for\
episodes of rest unemployment; while in expansions there is an increased scope for\
episodes of search unemployment. Figure 7c illustrate this last feature by showing\
the proportion of workers facing search, rest or reallocation unemployment for a\
given value of A. Although both rest and search unemployment are countercycli-\
cal, search unemployment episodes are relatively more common when the economy\
37\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 39 of 269]\
moves from mild recessions up to strong expansions. It is only as recessions get\
stronger that rest unemployment episodes become more common.\
The position and slopes of the cutoffs reveal a cyclical area of inaction, [zr(A;x),\
zs(A;x)]for each x. The cyclical change of the areas of inaction is important for it\
captures that workers\'92 option value of waiting unemployed in their pre-separation\
occupations is higher in recessions than expansions, and is a key determinant of the\
cyclical performance of unemployment and vacancies in our model. The negative\
slope of the zscutoffs together with the large mass of workers right above them\
(see Figure 7b) imply that a decrease in Aleads to a large increase in the in\uc0\u64258 ow of\
workers into rest unemployment. The positive slope of the zrcutoffs implies that the\
same decrease in Aalso leads to a large decrease in the out\uc0\u64258 ow from rest unemploy-\
ment via reallocation. These forces signi\uc0\u64257 cantly add to the density of unemployed\
workers already \'93trapped\'94 within these areas (see Figure 7a). Given that no \uc0\u64257 rm in\
an occupation expects to be able to make a pro\uc0\u64257 t by hiring these workers, vacancy\
creation falls as well. As conditions improve the areas of inaction narrow consider-\
ably such that rest unemployed workers are now much more likely to get a zshock\
that takes them below zror above zs.28As the surplus from hiring these workers be-\
comes positive and higher occupational mobility \uc0\u64258 ows help workers increase their\
z-productivities, vacancy creation goes up across all occupations. The strong cycli-\
cal responses of rest and search unemployment, re\uc0\u64258 ecting the changes in the areas\
of inaction, imply that aggregate unemployment also becomes highly responsive to\
A.29Online Appendix B.2 shows that these patterns occur across all human capital\
levels, explaining why we obtain unemployment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and separations rates\
across age groups with similar cyclical responses.\
The widening of the area of inaction during recessions also helps capture the\
cyclical behavior of the duration distribution. In recessions, long-term rest unem-\
ployed workers typically require a sequence of more and larger good zshocks be-\
fore becoming search unemployed in their pre-separation occupation. They would\
28In recessions that involve a 5% reduction in Arelative to the mean, workers still face an aver-\
age probability of about 25% of transitioning out of rest unemployment within a month; and this\
probability sharply increases with A.\
29Episodes of reallocation unemployment make a small contribution to the cyclicality of ubecause\
they only capture the time spent transiting between occupations, which is about 2 weeks on average,\
after which workers continue their jobless spell in episodes of rest or search before \uc0\u64257 nding a job in a\
new occupation.\
38\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 40 of 269]\
typically also require a sequence of more and larger bad shocks before deciding to\
reallocate. In contrast, for those workers who have just endogenously separated, zs\
is the cutoff that weighs most on their future outcomes. For these workers the dis-\
tance to the nearest cutoff is therefore not as responsive to Aas it is for the long-term\
unemployed. Hence over the cycle we observe that the out\uc0\u64258 ow rate of long-term\
unemployed workers responds more to changes in Arelative to the out\uc0\u64258 ow rate of\
shorter-term unemployed workers. This mechanism then translates into a stronger\
increase in the share of long-term unemployed in recessions as shown in Table 5,\
stronger than the one predicted based on the decline of falone. The widening of\
the area of inaction in recessions implies that the expected time spent in rest unem-\
ployment increases for (ex-post) occupations stayers as well as for (ex-post) movers,\
but more so for the latter. This rationalizes the stronger increase in average unem-\
ployment duration among occupational movers relative to stayers during recessions\
documented in Section 2.4.\
The role of human capital depreciation Online Appendix B.2 shows that hu-\
man capital depreciation is important in determining these dynamics as it affects the\
cyclical changes in the areas of inaction. As discussed in Section 4.2, without it the\
model generates aggregate unemployment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and occupational mobility\
rates that are too volatile. This occurs as a potential loss of xduring unemployment\
decreases the option value of waiting in the occupation and \uc0\u64258 attens the zrcutoff. It\
also \uc0\u64258 attens the zscutoff as it increases the option value of staying employed.\
The role of occupational mobility The cyclical sensitivity of the areas of inac-\
tion is also tightly linked with the existence of the zrcutoff and the properties of the\
zprocess. To show this we re-estimate the model not allowing workers to change\
occupations. Online Appendix B.3 shows that this version of our model appears\
unable to reconcile the observe cyclical \uc0\u64258 uctuations of the unemployment duration\
distribution with those of the aggregate unemployment rate. This occurs as it cannot\
resolve a key trade-off. In the absence of the zrcutoff the estimated zprocess is less\
persistent and exhibits a larger standard deviation, which creates enough hetero-\
geneity in unemployment durations to allow it to match the empirical unemploy-\
ment survival functions. However, this zprocess also increases the heterogeneity\
ofzrelative to the cyclical range of A. This makes the zscutoffs less responsive\
39\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 41 of 269]\
Table 6: Role Unemployment in the Changing Size of Occupations\
Distributions Model Decomposition of Distribution Change\
Task-Based Initial End Distribution Entrants Endogenous Occ. Mob in Unemployment\
Occupational Categories Distribution Data Model All Qtrs All Qtrs Qtrs u<umedianQtrs uumedian\
Non-routine Cognitive 0.224 0.329 0.337 0.125 -0.011 -0.006 - 0.005\
Routine Cognitive 0.292 0.258 0.246 -0.012 -0.034 -0.012 - 0.023\
Non-routine Manual 0.226 0.260 0.260 -0.054 0.088 0.031 0.057\
Routine Manual 0.258 0.154 0.157 -0.062 -0.039 -0.009 - 0.030\
Note: Columns 1 to 3 show the initial and end distributions of workers across tasked-based occupations. Column 4 shows the\
contribution of the exogenous entry process in changing the initial distribution, while column 5 shows the contribution of unemployed\
workers switching occupations. The sum of columns 4 and 5 is equal to the difference of columns 3 and 1. The last two columns show\
the contributions of occupation switchers in times when cyclical unemployment is above or below its median.\
and weakens the cyclical responses of job separations and the rate at which workers\
leave the new area of inaction, [z,zs(A;x)], where zdenotes the lowest value of z.\
5.2 Occupation Heterogeneity and Cyclical Unemployment\
The same mechanism described above also holds within each task-based category\
but its strength varies across these occupational groups. Consequently, unemployed\
workers face different unemployment outcomes that depend also on the identity of\
the occupation. Both the long-run and cyclical dimensions of occupation-wide pro-\
ductivity differences are relevant. To understand the former, column 5 in Table 6\
shows the contribution of unemployed occupational switchers in changing the ob-\
served sizes of the task-based categories in our calibration. This is compared to the\
contribution of the exogenous entry and exit process as captured by dandyo(col-\
umn 4 \'93Entrants\'94), such that for each task-based category the two values add up to\
the change in the employment stock (column 3 - column 1). The calibration shows\
that NRM occupations increased in size due to more unemployed workers switch-\
ing to these occupations than away from them. In contrast, RM and RCdecrease in\
size as more unemployed workers move away from these occupations than to them.\
The last two columns of Table 6 show the contribution of mobility through un-\
employment separately by periods of high and low unemployment, where we cat-\
egorise these periods by comparing the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment rate to its me-\
dian. We observe that it is during recessions that mobility through unemployment\
particularly accelerates the changing size of NRM and RM occupations, represent-\
ing about two-thirds and three-quarters of the total contribution of this channel,\
respectively. Jaimovich and Siu (2020) already documented the importance of re-\
40\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 42 of 269]\
Figure 8: Heterogeneity across Occupations over the Business Cycle\
(a) Cycl. Occ. Productivty\
0.900.951.001.051.10Occupation-wide Prod. Level Ap o\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggregate Productivity Level ( A)NRC RC\
NRM RM\
Average (b) NRC Cutoffs & U. Distr.\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (c) RC Cutoffs & U. Distr.\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A)\
(d) Cyclical U. Decomposition\
0.00.51.01.52.0Ratio Rest/Search Unemp.\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A)NRC RC\
NRM RM\
All (e) NRM Cutoffs & U. Distr.\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (f) RM Cutoffs & U. Distr.\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A)\
cessions in changing the size of routine occupations. Here we show that the net\
mobility patterns described in Section 2 together with the endogenous response in\
unemployment yield precisely such a pattern within our model.\
Figure 8 illustrates the mechanism. Figure 8a shows the levels and cyclicalities\
of the estimated occupation-wide productivities for the range of A. Re\uc0\u64258 ecting the\
estimated values of eo, it shows that RM and RCoccupations are strongly negatively\
affected in recessions, but catch up with the average in expansions. In contrast,\
NRM occupations are the least attractive in expansions but become more attractive\
in recessions. NRC occupations are consistently above average over the cycle (more\
so in expansions).\
Figures 8b, 8c, 8e, 8f show that these different cyclical productivities result in dif-\
ferent separation and reallocation cutoffs. Although their levels are not that differ-\
ent across task-based categories, in RM occupations the separation cutoffs decreases\
more steeply, while the reallocation cutoffs are nearly horizontal. In NRM occupa-\
tions the separation cutoffs are nearly horizontal and the reallocation cutoffs are\
strongly upward-sloping. This implies that in recessions job separations are more\
prominent in RM than in NRM occupations.\
41\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 43 of 269]\
Despite the differences in slopes, all task-based categories exhibit cutoffs with\
thezs>zrproperty. Further, the distance between these cutoffs creates areas of\
inaction that increase in recessions and narrow in expansions as described earlier.\
Figure 8d shows that as a result rest unemployment episodes are more common than\
search unemployment episodes in recessions within each task-based category. As\
the economy recovers search unemployment episodes are the most common ones.\
The observed countercyclical net mobility patterns then occur for mainly two\
reasons: (i) a differential cyclical response in the out\uc0\u64258 ows across task-based cate-\
gories, such that some task-based categories shed more workers during recessions\
relative to the average; and (ii) a differential cyclical response in the in\uc0\u64258 ows, such\
that those workers who have decided to change occupations choose their destina-\
tion task-based category differently in recessions than in expansions. The widening\
of the area of inactions as Adecreases implies that overall occupational mobility falls\
during recessions in all task-based categories. However, the differential responses\
inpoacross the cycle imply that the decrease in out\uc0\u64258 ows is stronger in NRM occu-\
pations and weaker in RM occupations relative to the average, as observed in the\
data. At the same time, Table 2 shows that the model is also able to reproduce the\
shift in the in\uc0\u64258 ow distribution towards RM and away from NRM occupations that\
occurs in recessions.\
6 Conclusions\
We have argued that workers\'92 option value of remaining attached to their careers\
(occupations) while unemployed is relatively larger in recessions than in expan-\
sions. The cyclical variation in this option value creates more wait/rest unemploy-\
ment episodes than search unemployment episodes in recessions, and it can jointly\
explain many features of cyclical unemployment, its duration distribution and occu-\
pational mobility. While idiosyncratic uncertainty regarding a worker\'92s career is the\
main force shaping this option value, the latter is also affected by occupation-wide\
differences that create net mobility across occupations. We \uc0\u64257 nd no tension between\
the cyclical behavior of individual unemployment outcomes, procyclical gross occu-\
pational mobility and countercyclical net mobility through unemployment, where\
EUE transitions play a meaningful role in shaping the changing size of RM,RCand\
NRM occupations. The potential responsiveness of this option value (or its relative\
42\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 44 of 269]\
importance in job search, separation and reallocation decisions) to policy opens the\
door for normative investigations.\
References\
[1] Ahn, Hie Joo and James D. Hamilton (2020): \'93Heterogeneity and Unemploy-\
ment Dynamics\'94. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , 38(3): 554-569.\
[2] Alvarez, Fernando and Robert Shimer (2011): \'93Search and Rest Unemploy-\
ment\'94. Econometrica , 79(1): 75-122.\
[3] Autor, David H., Frank Levy, Richard J. Murnane (2003): \'93The skill Content of\
Recent Technological Change: An Empirical Exploration\'94. Quarterly Journal of\
Economics , 116(4): 1279-1333.\
[4] Barnichon, Regis and Christopher J. Nekarda (2012): \'93The Ins and Outs of Fore-\
casting Unemployment: Using Labor Force Flows to Forecast the Labor Mar-\
ket\'94. Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , 43(2): 83-131.\
[5] Carrillo-Tudela, Carlos, Ludo Visschers and David Wiczer (2022): \'93Cyclical\
Earnings, Careers and Employment Transitions\'94. Mimeo.\
[6] Cheremukhin, Anton, Paulina Restrepo-Echevarria and Antonella Tutino\
(2020): \'93Targeted Search in Matching Markets\'94. Journal of Economic Theory , 185,\
104956.\
[7] Chodorow-Reich, Gabriel and Johannes Wieland (2020): \'93Secular Labor Real-\
location and Business Cycles\'94. Journal of Political Economy , 128(6): 2245-2287.\
[8] Dvorkin, Maximiliano (2014): \'93Sectoral Shocks, Reallocation and Unemploy-\
ment in Competitive Labor Markets \'94. Mimeo. Yale University, USA.\
[9] Fallick, Bruce C. (1993): \'93The Industrial Mobility of Displaced Workers\'94. Jour-\
nal of Labor Economics , 11(2): 302-323.\
[10] Fujita, Shigeru and Giuseppe Moscarini (2017): \'93Recall and Unemployment\'94.\
American Economic Review , 102(7): 3875-3916.\
43\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 45 of 269]\
[11] Hornstein, Andreas (2013): \'93Accounting for Unemployment: The Short and\
the Long of It\'94. Richmond FED, WP 12-07.\
[12] Hornstein, Andreas, Per Krusell and Giovanni L. Violante (2011): \'93Frictional\
Wage Dispersion in Search Models: A Quantitative Assessment\'94, American Eco-\
nomic Review , 101(7): 2873-2898.\
[13] Jaimovich, Nir and Henry E. Siu (2020): \'93The Trend is the Cycle: Job Polariza-\
tion and Jobless Recoveries\'94. Review of Economic and Statistics , 102(1): 129-147.\
[14] Kambourov, Gueorgui and Iourii Manovskii (2009): \'93Occupational Speci\uc0\u64257 city\
of Human Capital\'94. International Economic Review , 50(1): 63-115.\
[15] Kambourov, Gueorgui and Iourii Manovskii (2008): \'93Rising Occupational and\
Industry Mobility in the United States: 1968-97\'94. International Economic Review ,\
49(1): 41-79.\
[16] Kroft, Kory, Fabian Lange, Matthew J. Notowidigdo and Lawrence F. Katz\
(2016): \'93Long-Term Unemployment and the Great Recession: The Role of Com-\
position, Duration Dependence and Non-Participation\'94. Journal of Labor Eco-\
nomics , 34(S1): S7-S54.\
[17] Lilien, David M. (1982): \'93Sectoral Shifts and Cyclical Unemployment\'94. Journal\
of Political Economy , 90(4): 777-793.\
[18] Lucas, Robert E. and Edward C. Prescott (1974): \'93Equilibrium Search and Un-\
employment\'94. Journal of Economic Theory , 7: 188-209.\
[19] Menzio, Guido and Shouyoung Shi (2010): \'93Block recursive equilibria for\
stochastic models of search on the job.\'94 Journal of Economic Theory , 145(4): 1453-\
1494.\
[20] Mortensen, Dale T. and Christopher A. Pissarides (1994): \'93Job Creation and Job\
Destruction in the Theory of Unemployment\'94. Review of Economic Studies , 61(3):\
397-415.\
[21] Moscarini, Giuseppe and Kaj Thomsson (2007): \'93Occupational and Job Mobil-\
ity in the US\'94. Scandinavian Journal of Economics , 109(4): 807-836.\
44\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 46 of 269]\
[22] Mueller, Andreas I. (2017): \'93Separations, Sorting, and Cyclical Unemploy-\
ment\'94. American Economic Review , 107(7): 2081-2107.\
[23] Neal, Derek (1999): \'93The Complexity of Job Mobility Among Young Men\'94.\
Journal of Labor Economics , 17(2): 237-524.\
[24] Pilossoph, Laura (2014): \'93A Multisector Equilibrium Search Model of Labor\
Reallocation\'94. Mimeo.\
[25] Rogerson, Richard (1987): \'93An Equilibrium Model of Sectoral Reallocation\'94.\
Journal of Political Economy , 95(4): 824-834.\
[26] Shimer, Robert (2005): \'93The Cyclical Behavior of Equilibrium Unemployment\
and Vacancies\'94. American Economic Review , 95(1): 25-49.\
[27] Wiczer, David (2015): \'93Long-term Unemployment: Attached and Mis-\
matched?\'94 St. Louis FED, WP 2015-042A.\
[28] Wu, Liangjie (2020): \'93Partially Directed Search in the Labor Market\'94. Mimeo.\
45\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 47 of 269]\
ONLINE APPENDIX\
A Correcting for Occupational Coding Errors\
This Appendix complements Section 2.1 of the paper. Supplementary Appendix A\
provides the full version of this appendix. There we provide all results and proofs,\
present the estimate of G-correction matrix, show that our method is successful out\
of sample, and that it affects differently employer/activity movers and pooled sam-\
ples of all workers, also when the same (in)dependent interviewing procedure is ap-\
plied to both groups in the survey. We further compare the implied extent of coding\
error across different occupation (and industry) categories. We also show that our\
correction method implies an average occupational mobility rate at re-employment\
that is in line with the one derived from the PSID retrospective occupation-industry\
supplementary data \uc0\u64257 les. Finally, we discuss the plausibility of the assumption used\
to recover G. To save space, here we only summarise the main mathematical results.\
We use this error correction model to produce the results in the main text and Sup-\
plementary Appendix B.\
The elements of garbling matrix Gare de\uc0\u64257 ned to be the probabilities that an oc-\
cupation iis miscoded as an occupation j, for all i,j=1, 2, ..., O. We make three\
assumptions that allows us to identify and estimate G. (A1)Independent classi\uc0\u64257 cation\
errors : conditional on the true occupation, the realization of the occupational code\
is independent of worker history, worker characteristics or time. ( A2)\'93Detailed bal-\
ance\'94 in miscoding :diag(c)Gis symmetric, where cis aOx1 vector that describes the\
distribution of workers across occupations and diag(c)is the diagonal matrix of c.\
(A3)Strict diagonal dominance :Gis strictly diagonally dominant in that gii>0.5 for\
alli=1, 2, ..., O.\
To estimate Gwe exploit the change of survey design between the 1985 and 1986\
SIPP panels. Until the 1985 panel the SIPP used independent interviewing for all\
workers: in each wave all workers were asked to describe their job anew, without\
reference to answers given at an earlier date. Subsequently, a coder would consider\
that wave\'92s verbatim descriptions and allocate occupational codes. This practise\
is known to generate occupational coding errors. In the 1986 panel, instead, the\
practise changed to one of dependent interviewing. Respondents were only asked\
46\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 48 of 269]\
\'93independently\'94 to describe their occupation if they reported a change in employer\
or if they reported a change in their main activities without an employer change. If\
respondents declared no change in employer andin their main activities, the occu-\
pational code assigned to the respondent in the previous wave is carried forward.\
To identify Git is important to note that during February 1986 to April 1987,\
the 1985 and 1986 panels overlap, representing the same population under different\
survey designs. The identi\uc0\u64257 cation theory we develop in the next section refers to\
this population. We then show how to consistently estimate Gusing the population\
samples.\
A.1 Identi\uc0\u64257 cation of the Gmatrix\
Consider the population represented by 1985/86 SIPP panels during the overlap-\
ping period and divide it into two groups of individuals across consecutive inter-\
views by whether or not they changed employer or activity. Label those workers\
who stayed with their employers in both interviews and did not change activity as\
\'93employer/activity stayers\'94. By design this group only contains true occupational\
stayers. Similarly, label those workers who changed employers or changed activ-\
ity within their employers as \'93employer/activity changers\'94. By design this group\
contains all true occupational movers and the set of true occupational stayers who\
changed employers.\
Suppose that we were to subject the employer/activity stayers in this population\
to dependent interviewing as applied in the 1986 panel. Let csdenote the Ox1 vec-\
tor that describes their true distribution across occupations and let Ms=diag(cs).\
LetcD\
sdenote the Ox1 vector that describes their observed distribution across occu-\
pations under dependent interviewing and let MD\
s=diag(cD\
s). Note that cD\
s=\
G0Ms !1, where !1describes a vector of ones. Msis pre-multiplied by G0as true oc-\
cupations would have been miscoded in the \uc0\u64257 rst of the two consecutive interviews.\
Assumption A2implies that cD\
s=diag(cs)G !1=csand hence MD\
s=Ms.\
Next suppose that instead we were to subject the employer/activity stayers in\
this population to independent interviewing as applied in the 1985 panel. Let MI\
s\
denote the matrix that contains these workers\'92 observed occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows\
under independent interviewing. In this case MI\
s=G0MsG. Here Msis pre-multiplied\
byG0and post-multiplied by Gto take into account that the observed occupations of\
47\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 49 of 269]\
origin and destination would be subject to coding error.\
LetMmdenote the matrix that contains the true occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows of\
employer/activity changers in this population. The diagonal of Mmdescribes the\
distribution of true occupational stayers across occupations among employer/activity\
changers. The off-diagonal elements contain the \uc0\u64258 ows of all true occupational movers.\
Under independent interviewing MI\
m=G0MmG. Once again Mmis pre-multiplied\
byG0and post-multiplied by Gas the observed occupations of origin and destination\
would be subject to coding error.\
Letting MI=MI\
m+MI\
sdenote the matrix that contains the aggregate occupa-\
tional transition \uc0\u64258 ows across two interview dates under independent interviewing,\
it follows that MI\
s=MIMI\
m=G0MsG. By virtue of the symmetry of Msand\
assumption A2,MsG=G0Ms0=G0Ms. Substituting back yields MI\
s=MsGG. Next\
note that MI\
s=MsTI\
s, where TI\
sis the occupational transition probability matrix of\
the employer/activity stayers in this population observed under independent inter-\
viewing. Substitution yields MsTI\
s=MsGG. Multiply both sides by M1\
s, which\
exists as long as all the diagonal elements of Msare non-zero, yields the key rela-\
tionship we exploit to estimate G,\
TI\
s=GG. (7)\
To use this equation we \uc0\u64257 rst need to show that it implies a unique solution for\
G. Towards this result, we now establish that Gand TI\
sare diagonalizable. For the\
latter it is useful to interpret the coding error process described above as a Markov\
chain such that Gis the one-step probability matrix associated with this process.\
Lemma A.1: Assumptions A2 and A3 imply that GandTI\
sare diagonalizable.\
In general one cannot guarantee the uniqueness, or even existence, of a transition\
matrix that is the (nth)root of another transition matrix. Here, however, existence\
is obtained by construction: Tsis constructed from G, and in reverse, we can \uc0\u64257 nd\
its roots. The next result shows that Tshas a unique root satisfying assumptions A2\
and A3.\
Proposition A.1: Gis the unique solution to TI\
s=G Gthat satis\uc0\u64257 es assumptions A2 and\
A3. It is given by PL0.5P1, where Lis the diagonal matrix with eigenvalues of TI\
s,0<\
li1, and Pis the orthogonal matrix with the associated (normalized) eigenvectors.\
48\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 50 of 269]\
The above results imply that under A2and A3,Gis uniquely identi\uc0\u64257 ed from the\
transition matrix of true occupational stayers under independent interviewing, TI\
s.\
A.2 Estimation of G\
The next lemma provides an intermediate step towards estimating G. For this pur-\
pose let PDT(.)denote the space of transition matrices that are similar, in the matrix\
sense, to positive de\uc0\u64257 nite matrices.\
Lemma A.2: The function f :PDT(ROO)!PDT(ROO)given by f (T) = T0.5\
exists and is continuous with f (TI\
s) =Gin the spectral matrix norm.\
Let \'88TI\
sdenote the sample estimate of TI\
sand let \'88Gbe estimated by the root\
(\'88TI\
s)0.52PDT(ROO)such that \'88G= ( \'88TI\
s)0.5=\'88P\'88L0.5\'88P1, where \'88Lis the diago-\
nal matrix with eigenvalues of \'88TI\
s, 0<\'88li0.51 and \'88Pthe orthogonal matrix with\
the associated (normalized) eigenvectors. We then have the following result.\
Proposition A.2: Gis consistently estimated from (\'88TI\
s)0.52PDT(ROO)such that \'88G=\
(\'88TI\
s)0.5=\'88P\'88L0.5\'88P1. That is, plim n!\'a5\'88G=G.\
To identify and estimate Gin the SIPP it is not suf\uc0\u64257 cient to directly compare the\
aggregate occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows under independent interviewing with the\
aggregate occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows under dependent interviewing. Let MD=\
MI\
m+MD\
sdenote the matrix that contains the aggregate occupational transition\
\uc0\u64258 ows across two interview dates under dependent interviewing for employer/activity\
stayers and under independent interviewing for employer/activity movers. Sub-\
tracting MI=MI\
m+MI\
sfrom MDyields MD\
sMI\
s=MsG0MsG. Given the\
symmetry assumed in A2, the latter expression has 0.5 n(n1)exogenous variables\
on the LHS and 0.5 n(n+1)unknowns (endogenous variables) on the RHS, leaving\
G(and Ms) unidenti\uc0\u64257 ed.\
In addition to MDMI=MsG0MsGone can use MD=G0MmG+Ms, which\
contains the remainder information. When Mmhas mass on its diagonal, however,\
this additional system of equations has n2exogenous variables on the LHS and n2\
unknowns (arising from Mm) on the RHS. This implies that with the nunknowns\
remaining from MDMI=MsG0MsG, one is still unable to identify Gand Ms.\
Corollary A.1: IfMmhas mass on its diagonal, Gcannot be identi\uc0\u64257 ed from MIandMD\
alone.\
49\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 51 of 269]\
The intuition behind this result is that by comparing aggregate occupational\
transition \uc0\u64258 ows under dependent and independent interviewing, it is unclear how\
many workers are \'91responsible\'92 for the change in occupational mobility between MD\
and MI. Only when the diagonal of Mmcontains exclusively zeros, identi\uc0\u64257 cation\
could be resolved and one can recover Ms,Gand Mmas the number of equations\
equals the number of unknowns.30An implication of the above corollary is that\
interrupted time-series analysis that is based on the difference in occupational mo-\
bility at the time of a switch from independent to dependent interviewing, does not\
identify the precise extent of the average coding error, but provides a downwards\
biased estimate.\
To identify G, however, Proposition A.2 implies that one can use the observed\
occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows of a sample of true occupational stayers that are sub-\
ject to two rounds of independent interviewing. Some of these workers will appear\
as occupational stayers and some of them as occupational movers. Ideally, such a\
sample of workers should be isolated directly from the 1985 panel. Unfortunately,\
the questions on whether the individual changed activity or employer were only\
introduced in the 1986 panel, as a part of the switch to dependent interviewing.\
As a result, the 1985 panel by itself does not provide suf\uc0\u64257 cient information to sep-\
arate employer/activity stayers from employer/activity movers. Instead we use\
1986 panel to estimate \'88MI\
m. We can infer MI\
sindirectly by subtracting the observed\
occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ow matrix \'88MI\
min the 1986 panel from the observed occu-\
pational transition \uc0\u64258 ow matrix \'88MIin the 1985 panel. This is possible as the 1986\
panel refers to the same underlying population as the 1985 panel and separates the\
employer/activity changers, who are independently interviewed.\
Corollary A.2: \'88Gis consistently estimated from \'88TI\
swhen the latter is estimated from \'88MI\
\'88MI\
m\
This result is important to implement our approach. It follows as the population\
proportions underlying each cell of \'88Ms, the sample estimate of Ms, are consistently\
estimated. In turn, the latter follows from the standard central limit theorem for\
estimating proportions, which applies to \'88MI,\'88MI\
mand its difference. Proposition\
A.2 then implies that \'88Gis consistently estimated.30However, in the SIPP this case is empirically unreasonable as it requires that all em-\
ployer/activity changers be true occupational movers.\
50\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 52 of 269]\
B Quantitative Analysis\
This Appendix is divided into three parts that complement Sections 4 and 5 of the\
paper. The \uc0\u64257 rst part provides further details of the full model calibration done in\
Section 4. The second part presents the calibration results from the \'93excess mobility\
model\'94, where we analyse its ability to reproduce the long-run and cyclical patterns\
of several labor market variables.\
B.1 Full Model: Gross and Net Mobility\
In the main text we show that the calibrated version of the full model is able to repli-\
cate well all the targeted long-run occupational mobility, job separation, job \uc0\u64257 nding\
and unemployment patterns of the US labor market. It does so by generating within\
each task-based category periods of search, rest and reallocation unemployment as\
A,poand zevolve.\
Here we expand on the analysis presented in Sections 4 and 5 along three dimen-\
sions. First, we further show the model\'92s implied unemployment durations by pre-\
senting (i) the job \uc0\u64257 nding rates as a function of duration, (ii) the (incomplete) unem-\
ployment duration distribution and (iii) the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le decomposed\
by excess and net mobility. Second, we provide further details of the differences be-\
tween occupational categories with respect to their relative cyclical unemployment\
responses, and the cyclical in\uc0\u64258 ow and net \u64258 ow responses that are used to estimate\
occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c cyclical differences in the model. Third, we present the full cor-\
relation tables describing the cyclical performance of the model using the 5Q-MA\
smoothed and quarterly HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered measures. We also discuss the cyclicality of an\
alternative unemployment measure that includes entrants; show the cyclicality of\
the unemployment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and job separation rates by age groups; and present\
the decomposition of search, rest and reallocation unemployment episodes for a\
given value of Ain a comparable way to the one derived for the excess mobility\
model discussed in Section 5.1 of the main text.\
Unemployment duration moments Figure 9 shows the aggregate and age-\
speci\uc0\u64257 c unemployment hazard functions, comparing the model to the data. The\
observed duration dependence patterns are captured very well, where the young\
exhibit stronger negative duration duration dependence than the prime-aged. In\
51\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 53 of 269]\
Figure 9: Hazard Functions. Data and Model Comparison\
(a) All Workers\
0.100.150.200.250.30\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentModel \
Data (b) Young Workers\
0.100.150.200.250.30\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentModel \
Data (c) Prime-aged Workers\
0.100.150.200.250.30\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentModel Data\
our sample (and in the calibration) the degree of duration dependence in the un-\
employment hazard is relatively weak as we have tried to minimise the presence of\
unemployed workers who were in temporary layoff and/or returned to their pre-\
vious employers (see Supplementary Appendix B.4 for a further discussion of this\
issue).\
Figure 10 shows the aggregate and age-speci\uc0\u64257 c hazard functions separately for\
occupational movers and stayers. The model captures these well, where we \uc0\u64257 nd a\
stronger degree of negative duration dependence among occupational stayers than\
occupational movers, particularly among young workers, as in the data.\
Figure 10: Occupational Movers/Stayers Hazard Functions. Data and Model Com-\
parison\
(a) All Workers\
0.10.20.3\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentOcc Movers Model\
Occ Movers Data\
Occ Stayers Model\
Occ Stayers Data (b) Young Workers\
0.10.20.3\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentOcc Movers Model\
Occ Movers Data\
Occ Stayers Model\
Occ Stayers Data (c) Prime-aged Workers\
0.10.20.3\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentOcc. Movers Occ. Stayers\
Model Model \
Data Data \
The unemployment duration distribution is also well matched. Table 7 shows it\
reproduces very well both the proportion of short and long durations spells across\
the distribution. This \uc0\u64257 t is achieved when pooling together all workers and when\
separating them between young and prime-aged workers. Crucially, the \uc0\u64257 t of the\
52\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 54 of 269]\
Table 7: Incomplete Unemployment Duration Distribution Behavior (1-18 months)\
All workers Young workers Prime-aged workers\
Unemp. Full Excess Data Full Excess Data Full Excess Data\
Duration Model Model Model Model Model Model\
1-2 m 0.43 0.42 0.43 0.53 0.52 0.47 0.41 0.39 0.41\
1-4 m 0.65 0.64 0.67 0.76 0.75 0.71 0.63 0.61 0.65\
5-8 m 0.20 0.21 0.20 0.16 0.17 0.19 0.21 0.22 0.21\
9-12 m 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.05 0.05 0.07 0.10 0.10 0.09\
13-18m 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.07 0.07 0.06\
duration distribution is not implied by targeting the empirical unemployment sur-\
vival functions. The reported duration distribution is constructed by averaging du-\
ration distributions across quarters, while the survival functions are derived from\
pooling all observations. For example, the observed long-term unemployment in\
the pooled survival functions occur mainly in recessions and these observations get\
down-weighted when averaging across quarters (instead of counting each observa-\
tion equally). Indeed, we show below that matching the survival functions does not\
imply also matching the duration distribution.\
Supplementary Appendix B (Figures 9 and 10) shows that both excess and net\
mobility increase with unemployment duration and that the former is the main\
driver of the overall increase in the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Figure 11a (below) de-\
picts the model\'92s equivalent decomposition using task-based categories and with-\
out considering the \'93management\'94 occupation. In the model both excess and net\
mobility increase with unemployment duration. Given the countercyclicality of net\
mobility, the latter occurs as net mobility is more prominent in recessions where\
workers\'92 unemployment durations are typically longer. As in the data, excess mo-\
bility is the main driver of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le.\
Task-based occupational categories over the cycle The cyclical productivity\
loadings eoare the only four cyclical parameters that explicitly differ across task-\
based categories o2 fNRC ,RC,NRM ,RMg. Together with the elasticity of the\
cross-occupation search, n, these parameters shape the differential cyclical response\
of each category oalong three dimensions, summarised by 12 moments in the main\
text. (i) The cyclical response of net mobility for each task-based category, (ii) the\
cyclical change in the proportion of occupational movers that choose an occupa-\
tion category o, and (iii) the strength of each category\'92s unemployment durations\
53\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 55 of 269]\
Table 8: Task-based Unemployment Duration Elasticities\
NRC RC NRM RM\
#Data\
UD o,u0.410 0.384 0.284 0.418\
(s.e.) (0.068) (0.050) (0.045) (0.053)\
#Model\
UD o,u0.390 0.413 0.342 0.423\
#Data\
UD o,u/#Data\
UD avg,u(targeted) 1.096 1.026 0.759 1.119\
(s.e.) (0.183) (0.132) (0.119) (0.141)\
#Model\
UD o,u/#Model\
UD avg,u0.988 1.055 0.890 1.072\
response relative to the economy-wide average response to the aggregate unem-\
ployment rate.\
We highlight that in (iii) we target the unemployment duration elasticities for\
each task-based category relative to the economy-wide elasticity. We do this as we\
want to leave untargeted the ampli\uc0\u64257 cation of aggregate unemployment. In partic-\
ular, as a \uc0\u64257 rst step to derive these elasticities in the SIPP we regress for each task-\
based category othe log unemployment durations of workers who lost their job\
inoon the log (aggregate) unemployment rate and a linear trend. Let #UD o,ufor\
o2fNRC ,RC,NRM ,RMgdenote the resulting unemployment duration elastici-\
ties with respect to aggregate unemployment. The \uc0\u64257 rst row of Table 8 presents these\
elasticities and compares them to the simulated ones in the calibration. These elas-\
ticities show that NRM occupations have a more muted cyclical response than RM\
occupations. This differential response is also statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant: a Wald test\
on equality of the two corresponding coef\uc0\u64257 cients has an associated p-value of 0.02.\
In the second step, we normalize each elasticity by the (occupation size-weighted)\
average of all four elasticities. The resulting normalized elasticities are the ones we\
target in the model. The last two rows of Table 8 shows these ratios, showing that\
the model \uc0\u64257 ts the data well. In particular, it shows that RM occupations are the most\
cyclically sensitive in terms of unemployment durations; while NRM occupations\
are the least cyclically sensitive. These elasticities are in line with the data. Below\
we show that the model is also successful in generating the untargeted aggregate\
unemployment ampli\uc0\u64257 cation.\
As shown in the main text, the model is consistent with the cyclical changes in\
net mobility as well as the cyclical changes in the in\uc0\u64258 ows for each task-based cat-\
egory. This occurs as differences in eotranslate into cyclically changing incentives\
54\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 56 of 269]\
Figure 11: Task-Based Occupational Mobility\
(a) Decomposition of the Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le\
0.00.10.20.30.40.5Occupation Mobility (Model)\
123456789101112\
Months (m) in UnemploymentNet Mobility across set Excess Realloc.\
   of spells \uc0\u8805  m months    across spells \u8805  m\
Excess Reall. all u. spells    months(b) Cyclical Shifts across Occupation Categories in Net-\
\uc0\u64258 ows vs In\u64258 ows\
NRCRCNRM\
RMNRC\
RCNRM\
RM-0.06-0.04-0.020.000.020.040.06Change Recession - Expansion\
Proportion Occ among Destinations\
-0.01 0.00 0.01 0.02\
Net Mobility: Change Recession - Expansion Model\
Data\
Model, Fitted Values\
Data, Fitted Values\
for workers to leave an occupation in category oand, depending on n, to sample\
z-productivities from another occupation in category o0. Figure 11b displays the\
relationship between these two set of moments. For each task-based category, it\
shows the relationship between the cyclical changes in net mobility on the x-axis\
(\'93Net mobility o,Expansions - Net mobility o,Recessions \'94) and the cyclical changes\
in in\uc0\u64258 ows as a proportion of all occupational movers on the y-axis ( Dexprec(in\u64258 ow\
o/all \uc0\u64258 ows)). RM occupations have the strongest cyclical response of net out\u64258 ows,\
increasing in recessions, as well as the strongest response in the in\uc0\u64258 ow proportion,\
also larger in recessions. In contrast, NRM occupations are the ones which expe-\
rience the largest increase in net in\uc0\u64258 ows in recessions and the largest increase in\
in\uc0\u64258 ows as destination category.\
As Figure 11b and Table 8 show, the model captures well the co-movement along\
dimensions (i), (ii) and (iii) discussed above. In particular, with only one set of\
parameters indexed by task-based occupation category, eo, the model reproduces\
well the average co-movement of the cyclical in\uc0\u64258 ow shift with the cyclical changes\
in net \uc0\u64258 ows. Figure 11b shows that when comparing the \u64257 tted regression lines in\
the data and the model both display very similar slopes, where changing the net\
\uc0\u64258 ow by 1% goes together with an in\u64258 ow response of more than 2%.\
Economy-wide cyclical outcomes In terms of the cyclical properties of the un-\
employment, vacancies, job \uc0\u64257 nding and separation rates, Table 9 show the full set\
of correlations for the model and data. The model\'92s aggregate time series arise from\
55\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 57 of 269]\
the distributions of employed and unemployed workers across all labor markets,\
combined with agents\'92 decisions. The top panel compares the data and model us-\
ing centered 5Q-MA time series of quarterly data. The cyclical components of the\
(log) of these time series are obtained by using an HP \uc0\u64257 lter with parameter 1600. It\
shows that the model matches the data very well. The bottom panel compares the\
data and model without using this smoothing procedure. The version now yields\
vacancy and job separation rates that are much less persistent than their data coun-\
terparts. This happens because we have used a relative coarse grid for the simulated\
productivity process, as making the productivity grid \uc0\u64257 ner will make the compu-\
tational time of the calibration unmanageable. This implies that the discreteness\
of the zsand zrcutoffs functions (relative to the productivity grid) makes the va-\
cancy and job separation rates change value too often. Using a centered 5Q-MA on\
quarterly data alleviates this feature without further compromising on computation\
time. Note, however, that this comes at the cost of reducing the volatility of the va-\
cancy rate (and labor market tightness) in the model from 0.07 to 0.05 (0.21 to 0.17),\
while in the data they remain stable. Similarly on the data side, the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate,\
measured in a consistent way with the model while taking into account censoring\
in the SIPP , is somewhat noisy at quarterly frequency. Smoothing this time-series\
using the 5Q-MA helps diminish this noise.\
As argued in main text (and in Supplementary Appendix B.7) we consider the\
unemployment rate of those workers who are unemployed between jobs (EUE), so\
that the occupational mobility of these workers can be straightforwardly measured.\
The resulting EUE unemployment rate (EUE /(EUE +E)), under the de\uc0\u64257 nitions\
and restrictions we explained in the main text, is signi\uc0\u64257 cantly lower than the BLS at\
3.5% (vs 6.3%), but drives much of its changes. In particular, for every one percent-\
age point change in the BLS unemployment rate, we \uc0\u64257 nd that about 0.75 percentage\
points originate from the response of the EUE unemployment rate. This means that\
the relative cyclical response of the EUE unemployment rate is much stronger than\
the relative response of the BLS unemployment rate. Indeed, the volatility of the\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered logged quarterly EUE unemployment rate is 0.16 while the correspond-\
ing BLS unemployment measure (which includes in\uc0\u64258 ows from non-participation)\
over the same period is 0.11. For the 5Q-MA smoothed time series, the difference\
56\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 58 of 269]\
Table 9: Full Model: Logged and HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Business Cycle Statistics\
Smoothed data: centred 5Q MA time series of quarterly data\
Data (1983-2014) Full Model\
u v q s f outpw u v q s f outpw\
s 0.15 0.11 0.25 0.10 0.09 0.01 0.14 0.04 0.17 0.07 0.09 0.01\
rt1 0.98 0.99 0.99 0.94 0.93 0.92 0.93 0.91 0.92 0.88 0.93 0.88\
Correlation Matrix\
u 1.00 -0.95 -0.99 0.83 -0.86 -0.50 1.00 -0.66 -0.97 0.79 -0.89 -0.94\
v 1.00 0.98 -0.79 0.81 0.61 1.00 0.80 -0.83 0.90 0.81\
q 1.00 -0.82 0.85 0.55 1.00 -0.84 0.96 0.97\
s 1.00 -0.71 -0.43 1.00 -0.87 -0.91\
f 1.00 0.40 1.00 0.94\
outpw 1.00 1.00\
Un-smoothed data\
u v q s f outpw u v q s f outpw\
s 0.16 0.11 0.26 0.12 0.13 0.01 0.16 0.07 0.20 0.11 0.12 0.01\
rt1 0.85 0.96 0.94 0.58 0.33 0.75 0.88 0.54 0.83 0.39 0.78 0.76\
Correlation Matrix\
u 1.00 -0.86 -0.98 0.69 -0.65 -0.38 1.00 -0.54 -0.96 0.52 -0.80 -0.89\
v 1.00 0.95 -0.75 0.59 0.50 1.00 0.75 -0.74 0.85 0.78\
q 1.00 -0.74 0.65 0.44 1.00 -0.65 0.90 0.95\
s 1.00 -0.57 -0.32 1.00 -0.79 -0.79\
f 1.00 0.26 1.00 0.91\
outpw 1.00 1.00\
is from 0.15 (EUE)to 0.10 (BLS). The above also means that the focus on EUE un-\
employment raises the bar further to achieve suf\uc0\u64257 cient ampli\u64257 cation. Nevertheless,\
Table 9 shows that our model performs well.\
In the model we also can calculate a measure of unemployment that includes\
unemployment following \uc0\u64257 rst entry into the labor market. Relative to the BLS mea-\
sure, this measure still excludes unemployment associated with workers who re-\
enter the labor market during their working life or who subsequently leave the la-\
bor force but not before spending time in unemployment. Including entrants in\
unemployment raises the average total unemployment rate to 5.2% in the model,\
exhibiting a lower volatility of 0.12 (5Q-MA smoothed). The latter arises as with\
this unemployment measure, roughly 60% of the way from the EUE to BLS unem-\
ployment measures, the volatility gets closer to that of the BLS measure. Cross-\
correlation and autocorrelation statistics of this alternative unemployment measure\
are very similar to the EUE unemployment measure.\
The ability of the model to replicate the cyclical behavior of many labor mar-\
ket variables is down to the coexistence of episodes of search, rest and reallocation\
unemployment during workers\'92 jobless spells. Figure 12 shows that when aggregat-\
ing across all occupations the distribution of these types of unemployment episodes\
57\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 59 of 269]\
Figure 12: Unemployment Decomposition - Full model\
(a) All Workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
Reall. (b) Young Workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search\
Rest\
Reall. (c) Prime-aged Workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
Reall.\
across values of Ais very similar to the one generated by the excess mobility model\
depicted in the main text. That is, search unemployment episodes are the most\
common when the economy moves from mild recessions up to strong expansions.\
It is only as recessions get stronger that rest unemployment episodes become more\
common.\
The middle and right panels of Figure 12 shows that among young and prime-\
aged workers the calibration generates similar search and rest unemployment dy-\
namics over the business cycle. This yields high and similar cyclical volatilities for\
the unemployment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and separation rates across age groups. In particular,\
theuvolatilities for the young and the prime-aged are 0.139 and 0.141, the volatili-\
ties of ffor young and prime-aged workers are 0.099 and 0.096; and the volatilities\
ofsare 0.059 for young workers and 0.063 for prime-aged workers. We return to\
this point in the next section when presenting the calibration details of the excess\
mobility model.\
B.2 Excess Mobility and Cyclical Unemployment\
To show the importance of idiosyncratic occupation-worker ( z) productivity shocks\
in allowing the full model to replicate the cyclical behavior of many labor market\
variables, we re-estimate the model by shutting down occupation-wide heterogene-\
ity (level and business cycle loadings), effectively setting po,t=1 at all t. In this\
case, a worker\'92s productivity at time tin an occupation ois completely described by\
aggregate productivity A, worker-occupation match productivity zand occupation-\
speci\uc0\u64257 c human capital x. Workers do not (and do not want to) prefer a new occupa-\
tion over another before knowing their z. Note that although we label this model as\
58\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 60 of 269]\
Table 10: Targeted Moments, Excess Mobility Model\
Moment Model Data Moment Model Data\
Agg. output per worker mean 1.005 1.000 Rel. separation rate young/prime-aged 2.134 1.994\
Agg. output per worker persistence, routpw 0.761 0.753 Rel. separation rate recent hire/all 5.230 4.944\
Agg. output per worker st. dev., soutpw 0.0094 0.0094 Prob (unemp. within 3 yr for empl.) 0.148 0.122\
Mean unemployment 0.0355 0.0355 Empirical elasticity matching function 0.522 0.500\
Average u. duration movers/stayers 1.211 1.139 5-year OLS return to occ. tenure 0.150 0.154\
Repeat mobility: occ. stay after stay 0.600 0.634 10-year OLS return to occ. tenure 0.230 0.232\
Occ. mobility young/prime-aged 1.162 1.163\
Occ. mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les Fig 5a,b,c U. survival pro\u64257 les Fig 5d,e\
the \'93excess mobility model\'94, it can easily be made consistent with the observed av-\
erage net \uc0\u64258 ows by imposing an exogenous transition matrix that governs the prob-\
abilities with which a worker in occupation oobserves a zin a different occupation\
o0.31This is in contrast to our full model, where occupational productivities po,po0\
differ and change relative to one another over the cycle and in response workers\
change the direction of their cross-occupation search. As such the full model can\
be considered as the \'93endogenous net mobility\'94 model, while the excess mobility\
model as the \'93exogenous net mobility\'94 model.\
B.2.1 Benchmark Excess Mobility Model\
This version of the model corresponds to the excess mobility model in the main text.\
Except for occupation-wide productivity differences and a cross-occupation search\
decisions, everything else remains as described in Section 3 of the main text. We use\
the same functional forms as done to calibrate the full model in Section 4 of the main\
text. This implies that to capture economic choices and gross mobility outcomes, we\
now have a set of 14 parameters to recover, where [c,rz,sz,znorm]governs occu-\
pational mobility due to idiosyncratic reasons (excess mobility);\
x2,x3,gd,dL,dH\
governs differences in occupational human capital; and the remainder parameters\
[k,b,h,rA,sA]are shared with standard DMP calibrations. We jointly calibrate these\
parameters by matching the moments reported in Table 10 and Figures 13a-13e.\
The excess mobility model matches very well the targeted occupational mobility\
moments as well as the job \uc0\u64257 nding and job separation moments. The \u64257 t is compa-\
rable with the one of the full model. This model also matches well the untargeted\
moments pertaining to workers\'92 gross occupational mobility and job \uc0\u64257 nding haz-\
31With a cyclically varying exogenous transition matrix, we would also be able to match the ob-\
served cyclical net \uc0\u64258 ows.\
59\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 61 of 269]\
Figure 13: Excess Mobility Model: Data and Model Comparison\
(a) Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le (All)\
0.30.40.50.60.7Proportion Moving Occupation\
(MOG) Upon Exit U\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTarget, Data Model\
Uncorrected Mobility, Data Model\
Mobility, Data Model (b) Mobility-Duration Young-Prime\
0.30.40.50.60.7\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentYoung Unemployed  Prime-Aged \
Target - Data Target - Data \
Target - Model Target - Model \
Mobility - Model Mobility - Model (c) Cyclical Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le\
0.30.40.50.60.7\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTimes of High U  Times of Low U \
Target - Data Target - Data\
Target - Model Target - Model\
(d)Survival Pro\uc0\u64257 le (All)\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
0.00.20.40.60.81.0Survival in Unemployment\
2 6 10 14 18\
Months in UnemploymentTarget, Data\
Target, Model (e)Survival Pro\uc0\u64257 le Young-\
Prime\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
0.00.20.40.60.81.0\
2 6 10 14 18\
Months in UnemploymentYoung: Target, Data Model\
Prime: Target, Data Model(f)Survival Pro\uc0\u64257 le Movers-\
Stayers\
0.020.050.100.200.400.701.00\
Survival, log scale (lighter colors)0.00.20.40.60.81.0\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentMovers: Model Data\
Stayers: Model Data\
ards discussed in the previous section. The \uc0\u64257 t of other untargeted moments is not\
shown here to save space, but available upon request. The estimated parameter val-\
ues in this calibration are also very similar to the ones obtained in the full model.\
These are c=7.549, k=125.733, b=0.843, h=0.241, dL=0.0034, dH=0.0004,\
zcorr=0.349, rA=0.998, sA=0.00198, rz=0.998, sz=0.00707, x2=1.181,\
x3=1.474 and gh=0.0039.\
As shown in the main text, the excess mobility calibration is also able to \uc0\u64257 t a\
wide range of cyclical features of the labor market. The left panel of Table 11 (below)\
shows the time series properties of the unemployment, vacancy, job \uc0\u64257 nding and job\
separation rates and labor market tightness as well as the full set of correlations\
between them, obtained from the excess mobility calibration. Here we \uc0\u64257 nd that the\
cyclical implications of the excess mobility model are very similar to that of the full\
model, as shown and discussed in the main text.\
60\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 62 of 269]\
Figure 14: Unemployment Decomposition - Excess Mobility Model\
(a) All workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
Reall. (b) Young Workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search\
Rest\
Reall. (c) Prime-aged Workers\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
Reall.\
Figure 15: (Un)Employment Distributions and Aggregate Productivity by Age\
Groups\
(a) Young Unemployed\
zs(A, x 1)\
zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (b) Young Employed\
zs(A, x 1)zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) \
(c) Prime-Aged Unemployed\
zs(A, x 1)\
zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0 z-Productivity Level\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) (d) Prime-Aged Employed\
zs(A, x 1)zr(A, x 1)\
zs(A, x 2)\
zr(A, x 2)\
zs(A, x 3)\
zr(A, x 3)\
0.40.60.81.0\
0.94 0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04 1.06\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) \
Age patterns Figure 14 shows that the occurrence of search, rest and realloca-\
tion unemployment episodes not only happens when pooling all workers together\
but also for each age group, as in the full model. Figure 15 shows these age group\
dynamics more clearly by depicting the distribution of unemployed and employed\
workers among young and prime-aged workers. It shows that during recessions\
unemployment among young workers is concentrated slightly above zs(.,x1)and\
61\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 63 of 269]\
between zs(.,x1)and zr(.,x1). During expansions, however, unemployment is lo-\
cated above the zs(.,x1)cutoff. In the case of prime-aged workers, the concentration\
of unemployment during recessions and expansions occurs mostly above zs(.,x3)\
and between zs(.,x3)and zr(.,x3), but also between the zs(.,x1)and zr(.,x1)cutoffs.\
This difference implies that during expansion episodes of rest unemployment are\
still prevalent among prime-aged workers, while for young workers these episodes\
basically disappear (as shown in Figure 14) and are consistent with a lower occupa-\
tional mobility rate among prime-aged workers.\
As in the full model, the excess mobility calibration obtains a similar cyclical-\
ity for the unemployment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and separations rates across age-groups. In\
both models this occurs because the estimated z-productivity process places enough\
workers on the zscutoffs across the respective human capital levels. Figure 15\
shows that, as is the case for low human capital workers, many high human capital\
workers enjoy high z-productivities, but for a number of them their z-productivities\
have drifted down, positioning themselves close to zs(.,x3). Some of these high\
human capital workers will subsequently leave the occupation, but over time the\
stock of workers close to zs(.,x3)will be replenished by those workers who cur-\
rently have high z-productivities but will suffer bad z-realizations in the near fu-\
ture. As zs(.,x3)<zs(.,x1)the average level of separations is lower for high human\
capital workers, but this nevertheless does not preclude the similarity in the afore-\
mentioned cyclical responsiveness.\
Given that it is clear the excess mobility model is able to replicate on its own\
many critical features of the full model, in what follows we use it to perform two\
key exercises. The \uc0\u64257 rst one highlights the effect of human capital depreciation in at-\
tenuating the cyclical properties of the above labor market variables and motivates\
our use of the cyclical shift of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le as a target. The second\
exercise investigates the quantitative implications of our model when considering\
that a worker\'92s varying job \uc0\u64257 nding prospects (due to the stochastic nature of the\
z-productivity process) during a jobless spell can be linked to observed transitions\
between the states of unemployment and non-participation (or marginally attached\
to the labor force) as de\uc0\u64257 ned in the SIPP . For this exercise we recompute all of the\
relevant empirical targets using non-employment spells that contain a mix of pe-\
62\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 64 of 269]\
Figure 16: The Cyclical Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le in Relation to Human Capital De-\
preciation\
(a) Model with HC Depreciation\
0.30.40.50.60.7Proportion Moving Occupation\
(MOG) Upon Exit U\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTimes of High U  Times of Low U \
Target - Data Target - Data\
Target - Model Target - Model (b) Model without HC Depreciation\
0.30.40.50.60.7\
1 3 5 7 9 11\
Months in UnemploymentTimes of High U  Times of Low U \
Target - Data Target - Data\
Target - Model Target - Model\
riods of unemployment and non-participation. To save space we refer the reader\
to our working paper Carrillo-Tudela and Visschers (2020) for the list of targeted\
moments, the \uc0\u64257 t and the estimated parameter values under both exercises.\
B.2.2 The Importance of Human Capital Depreciation\
To estimate the full and the excess mobility models we used the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 les at different durations during recessions and expansions. These patterns in-\
formed us about the rate of occupational human capital depreciation during spells\
of unemployment. In the main text, we argued that these pro\uc0\u64257 les were crucial in\
helping us identify the depreciation parameter, gh. The reason for the latter is that\
a model which did not incorporate human capital depreciation will generate very\
similar long-run moments as a model which did incorporate depreciation, but gen-\
erate different cyclical predictions. To show this, we now discuss the result of the\
excess mobility model without human capital depreciation. To estimate the latter\
we target the same long-run moments as in the calibration described above, but do\
not target the cyclical behaviour of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le.\
We \uc0\u64257 nd that the \u64257 t is very good, similar to the models which incorporates human\
capital depreciation. It also does well in matching the same untargeted long-run\
moments described above. The estimated parameter values are also similar. Further,\
this calibration \uc0\u64257 nds that periods of search, rest and reallocation unemployment can\
arise during a worker\'92s jobless spell across all levels of occupational human capital.\
Figure 16 shows the \uc0\u64257 rst key difference between the excess mobility model with\
63\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 65 of 269]\
Table 11: Excess Mobility Models: HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Business Cycle Statistics\
Excess Mobility Model with HC dep. Excess Mobility Model with No HC dep.\
u v q s f outpw u v q s f outpw\
s 0.14 0.05 0.17 0.06 0.10 0.01 0.20 0.06 0.25 0.10 0.14 0.01\
rt1 0.95 0.91 0.94 0.89 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.87 0.94 0.88 0.93 0.94\
Correlation Matrix Correlation Matrix\
u 1.00 -0.72 -0.98 0.80 -0.89 -0.95 1.00 -0.62 -0.97 0.78 -0.89 -0.92\
v 1.00 0.84 -0.81 0.94 0.85 1.00 0.76 -0.61 0.77 0.72\
q 1.00 -0.84 0.96 0.97 1.00 -0.78 0.94 0.93\
s 1.00 -0.87 -0.90 1.00 -0.81 -0.84\
f 1.00 0.95 1.00 0.89\
outpw 1.00 1.00\
Note: Each model\'92s aggregate time series arise from the distributions of employed and unemployed work-\
ers across all labor markets, combined with agents\'92 decisions. Times series are centered 5Q-MA series of\
quarterly data to smooth out the discreteness in the relatively \uc0\u64258 at cutoffs (relative to the grid). The cyclical\
components of the logged time series are obtained by using an HP \uc0\u64257 lter with parameter 1600.\
and without occupational human capital depreciation. We plot the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le in times of expansions and recessions (low and high unemployment, respec-\
tively), where Figure 16a shows the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les from the model with\
human capital depreciation and Figure 16b shows the ones for the model without\
human capital depreciation. The latter \uc0\u64257 nds that the lack of human capital depreci-\
ation implies the model completely misses the pro\uc0\u64257 le at nearly all durations during\
recessions, particularly at low durations. Is precisely this lack of \uc0\u64257 t that motivated\
us to add the cyclical patterns of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le as targets in order to\
help identify the rate of human capital depreciation.\
Table 11 shows the second key difference. The model without depreciation gen-\
erates a larger amount of cyclical volatility in the aggregate unemployment, job\
\uc0\u64257 nding and job separation rates in relation to the model with human capital de-\
preciation. Relative to the data, Table 9 shows an overshooting in the volatilities of\
the unemployment and job \uc0\u64257 nding rates. This occurs as the area of inaction between\
zrand zsbecomes too cyclical. Without human capital depreciation there is a sharp\
drop in the proportion of rest unemployment and a sharper rise in the proportions\
of search and reallocation unemployment as the economy improves. Human capital\
depreciation attenuates these effects, improving the model\'92s \uc0\u64257 t.\
B.2.3 The Unemployed and Marginally Attached\
Previous calibrations build the analysis based on the interpretation that, although\
a worker who is currently in rest unemployment cannot \uc0\u64257 nd a job, he would want\
to search for jobs (as opposed to stay idle at home) because he still faces a posi-\
64\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 66 of 269]\
Table 12: NUN Spells: HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Business Cycle Statistics\
Data (1983-2014) - NUN spells Excess Mobility Model - NUN spells\
u v q s f outpw u v q s f outpw\
s 0.11 0.11 0.21 0.10 0.08 0.01 0.09 0.03 0.11 0.04 0.07 0.01\
rt1 0.97 0.99 0.94 0.99 0.94 0.93 0.95 0.85 0.94 0.87 0.93 0.94\
Correlation Matrix Correlation Matrix\
u 1.00 -0.92 -0.98 0.79 -0.96 -0.51 1.00 -0.51 -0.96 0.65 -0.81 -0.89\
v 1.00 0.98 -0.79 0.94 0.61 1.00 0.72 -0.50 0.75 0.65\
q 1.00 -0.80 0.96 0.57 1.00 -0.68 0.89 0.92\
s 1.00 -0.87 -0.43 1.00 -0.64 -0.80\
f 1.00 0.46 1.00 0.86\
outpw 1.00 1.00\
See description under Table 11 for details.\
tive expected job \uc0\u64257 nding probability in the near future. Episodes of rest unemploy-\
ment, however, could conceptually be extended to incorporate marginally attached\
workers. To investigate the latter we expand our analysis to capture more broadly\
the occupational mobility decisions of the unemployed and marginally attached in\
shaping the cyclicality of aggregate unemployment.\
We do this by re-estimating the excess mobility model, recomputing the targets\
using non-employment spells in which workers transition between unemployment\
and non-participation as labelled in the SIPP . We consider non-employment spells\
with at least one period of unemployment, which we label \'91NUN\'92 spells. To avoid\
maternity and related issues in non-participation we restrict the focus to men. We\
show that when considering NUN spells the model still reproduces the observed\
cyclical ampli\uc0\u64257 cation in the non-employment rate.32\
The \uc0\u64257 t is once again very good in this case even though the survival probability\
in NUN spells shifts up signi\uc0\u64257 cantly at longer durations, compared to the corre-\
sponding patterns for unemployment spells, both for all workers and across age\
groups. The estimated parameter values are also broadly similar to the ones in the\
previous versions of the excess mobility model, changing in expected directions.\
The zprocess is now somewhat more volatile, but the higher reallocation cost im-\
plies that the area of inaction between zsand zris (in relative terms) also larger. The\
latter leaves more scope for workers to get \'93trapped\'94 for longer periods in rest un-\
employment episodes, thus creating an increase in the survival functions across all,\
young and prime-aged workers as observed in the data.\
32Here we also focus on spells of at least one month and workers who say that they are \'93without a\
job\'94, mirroring these sample restrictions for unemployment spells.\
65\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 67 of 269]\
Table 12 shows the main takeaway of this exercise. The model remains able to\
generate cyclical movements of the non-employment, job \uc0\u64257 nding and job separation\
rates as well as a relatively strong Beveridge curve. In particular, the cyclical volatil-\
ities of the non-employment and job \uc0\u64257 nding rates are the same as in the data. As\
in the previous estimations, here we also \uc0\u64257 nd that the reason for the ampli\u64257 cation\
of the non-employment rate is that the model generates period of search, rest and\
reallocation unemployment, whose relative importance changes over the cycle.\
Including marginally attached workers in our analysis increases the overall im-\
portance of rest unemployment in normal times. This is consistent with the fact that\
in these times the non-employment rate is higher and the associated job \uc0\u64257 nding rate\
lower, compared to our benchmark unemployment and job \uc0\u64257 nding rates measures.\
Further, this version of the model still needs to accommodate short-term out\uc0\u64258 ows\
as before and does so mostly through search unemployment episodes. As a result,\
the proportion of rest unemployment decreases at a slower rate with A. Even at\
the highest aggregate productivity levels rest unemployment is very prevalent, rep-\
resenting about 40% of all episodes during a non-employment spell, with a large\
role for prime-aged workers. Overall we \uc0\u64257 nd that a version of the excess mobil-\
ity model that considers NUN spells exhibits a higher non-employment rate but a\
lower cyclicality than in our benchmark model. This is consistent with the data,\
where we observe a lower cyclicality among the non-employment than among the\
unemployment.\
B.3 The Importance of Occupational Mobility\
To demonstrate the importance of including the zrcutoff to simultaneously replicate\
the cyclical behaviour of the unemployment duration distribution and the aggregate\
unemployment rate, we re-estimate the model by shutting down occupational mo-\
bility. This is done by exogenously setting cto a prohibiting level. We present two\
calibrations. Model I targets the same moments as in the full model with the excep-\
tion of those pertaining to occupational mobility.33Model 2 is chosen to achieve a\
33To make the estimation of Model I as comparable as possible with the previous ones, we continue\
targeting the returns to occupational mobility to inform the human capital levels, x2and x3. Under\
no occupational mobility, human capital could also be interpreted as general and not occupation\
speci\uc0\u64257 c, depending on the aim of the exercise. In this sense it would be more appropriate to target the\
returns to general experience. However, a comparison between the OLS returns to general experience\
and the OLS returns to occupational human capital estimated by Kambourov and Manovskii (2009)\
66\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 68 of 269]\
Table 13: Models Without Reallocation: HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Business Cycle Statistics\
No Occupational Mobility - Model I No Occupational Mobility - Model II\
u v q s f outpw u v q s f outpw\
s 0.04 0.02 0.06 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.10 0.03 0.12 0.07 0.05 0.01\
rt1 0.94 0.85 0.93 0.83 0.87 0.94 0.94 0.85 0.94 0.89 0.89 0.94\
Correlation Matrix Correlation Matrix\
u 1.00 -0.42 -0.93 0.71 -0.77 -0.86 1.000 -0.57 -0.98 0.83 -0.79 -0.96\
v 1.000 0.72 -0.26 0.58 0.60. 1.00 0.73 -0.60 0.72 0.66\
q 1.00 -0.65 0.82 0.90 1.00 -0.85 0.84 0.97\
s 1.00 -0.52 -0.71 1.00 -0.85 -0.89\
f 1.00 0.74 1.00 0.84\
outpw 1.00 1.00\
See description under Table 11 for details.\
higher cyclical volatility in the aggregate unemployment rate but is more permissive\
of deviations from the targets.\
Model I To save space our working paper, Carrillo-Tudela and Visschers (2020),\
shows the table of targeted moments and the \uc0\u64257 t as well as the estimated parameter\
values. The \uc0\u64257 t is largely comparable along nearly all corresponding dimensions to\
the full and excess mobility models. The estimated parameters are largely sensible.\
Two key features stand out: (i) there is now a higher role for search frictions as the\
model estimates a higher value k=195.58; and (ii) the zprocess is now less persis-\
tentrz=0.9923 and exhibits a much larger variance sz=0.0300 in the stationary\
distribution, generating a perhaps too large Mm ratio of 2.28.34Table 13 under \'93No\
Occupational Mobility - Model I\'94, however, shows that this model cannot generate\
enough cyclical volatility on all the relevant labor market variables.\
Table 14 further shows that Model I is not able to reproduce the observed average\
quarterly unemployment duration distribution at short or long durations (Panel A),\
nor does it capture the cyclical behavior of this distribution (Panel B). While Model\
I and the occupational mobility models replicate the same unemployment survival\
functions, they generate different incomplete duration distributions. This occurs\
because the survival functions are computed pooling the entire sample, while the\
distribution of incomplete spells between 1 and 18 months is calculated for each\
quarter and then averaged across quarters. Model I generates about 50% more long-\
from the PSID (see their Table 3 comparing columns 1 and 3 or 6 and 8), suggests that this bias should\
be moderate. Using their estimates, the 5 year return to general experience is about 0.19, while the\
10 years returns is about 0.38.\
34In this context the z-productivity process can be interpreted as an idiosyncratic productivity\
shock affecting a worker\'92s overall productivity, rather than a worker\'92s idiosyncratic productivity\
within an occupation.\
67\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 69 of 269]\
Table 14: Incomplete Unemployment Duration Distribution Behavior\
Panel A: Incomplete Unemployment Distribution (1-18 months)\
All workers Young workers Prime-aged workers\
Unemp. Occ No Occ. No Occ. Data Occ. No Occ. No Occ. Data Occ. No Occ. No Occ. Data\
Duration Model Model I Model II Model Model I Model II Model Model I Model II\
1-2 m 0.43 0.38 0.36 0.43 0.53 0.45 0.36 0.47 0.41 0.35 0.36 0.41\
1-4 m 0.65 0.58 0.56 0.67 0.76 0.67 0.55 0.71 0.63 0.56 0.56 0.65\
5-8 m 0.20 0.22 0.22 0.20 0.16 0.19 0.22 0.19 0.21 0.23 0.22 0.21\
9-12 m 0.09 0.11 0.12 0.08 0.05 0.08 0.12 0.07 0.10 0.12 0.12 0.09\
13-18m 0.06 0.09 0.10 0.05 0.03 0.06 0.11 0.03 0.07 0.09 0.09 0.06\
Panel B: Cyclical Changes of the Incomplete Unemployment Distribution (1-18 months)\
Elasticity wrt u HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Semi-elasticity wrt u\
Unemp. Occ No Occ. No Occ. Data Occ No Occ. No Occ. Data\
Duration Model Model I Model II Model Model I Model II\
1-2 m -0.450 -0.328 -0.265 -0.464 -0.155 -0.122 -0.099 -0.169\
1-4 m -0.321 -0.241 -0.186 -0.363 -0.168 -0.134 -0.107 -0.184\
5-8 m 0.414 0.148 0.119 0.320 0.067 0.046 0.040 0.076\
9-12 m 1.102 0.422 0.300 0.864 0.058 0.049 0.039 0.072\
>13 m 1.817 0.752 0.504 1.375 0.044 0.039 0.029 0.043\
term unemployment (9-12 months) relative to the data and the discrepancy is even\
stronger, about 80%, at longer durations. That is, this model matches the unemploy-\
ment survival functions by creating too dispersed unemployment durations within\
a typical quarter, in particular too many long spells, but its distribution then re-\
sponds too little to the cycle.\
Model II If one is willing to compromise on replicating the aggregate and age-\
group survival functions, however, the model without occupational mobility is able\
to generate larger cyclical volatilities. To show this we re-estimated the model by\
de-emphasising these survival functions. Once again we refer to Carrillo-Tudela\
and Visschers (2020) for the \uc0\u64257 t of this model and the estimated parameter values.\
There we show that the unemployment survival functions of young and prime-aged\
workers are no longer well matched. This model misses the distribution at longer\
durations for young workers and at shorter durations for prime-aged workers, such\
that age differences in job \uc0\u64257 nding hazards have nearly disappeared. However, there\
is now a lower degree of search frictions, k=102.019 and the zprocess is more\
persistent, rz=0.993, and its overall dispersion is much lower than in Model I,\
sz=0.0132. It is these last properties that allow Model II to create more cyclical\
volatility as shown in the right panel of Table 12.\
Panel A of Table 14 - No Occ. Model II shows that this model still creates\
too much long-term unemployment (13-18 months) in the average quarter, where\
the proportion of long-term unemployed (among those with spells between 1-18\
68\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 70 of 269]\
months) is missed by a large margin for all, young and prime-aged workers. Fur-\
ther, Panel B of Table 14 shows that this feature is also re\uc0\u64258 ected in a muted cyclical\
response of the unemployment duration distribution. Here we also \uc0\u64257 nd that Model\
II misses the semi-elasticity with respect to the unemployment rate by an average of\
about 40% across the duration distribution.35\
Discussion These calibrations show that without the zrcutoff versions of our\
model with no occupational mobility cannot resolve the tension between individual\
unemployment outcomes and aggregate unemployment volatility. This arises as\
without the possibility of occupational mobility the new area of inaction is de\uc0\u64257 ned\
by the set of z2[z,zs], where zis the lowest value of z, and its cyclical response\
now solely depends on \'b6zs/\'b6A.\
In the case of Model I, a less persistent and much more volatile zprocess creates\
enough heterogeneity in unemployment durations that allows it to match the em-\
pirical unemployment survival functions at the aggregate and across age groups.\
However, it also increases the heterogeneity in z-productivities relative to the cycli-\
cal range of A. This dampens the model\'92s cyclical performance as it implies less\
responsive zscutoffs relative to the workers\'92 zdistribution, weakening the cyclical\
responses of job separations and the rate at which workers leave the area of inac-\
tion. Moreover, with a larger vacancy posting cost, Figure 17.a shows that search\
unemployment is now more prominent than rest unemployment at any point of the\
cycle. Larger search frictions imply larger surpluses and therefore further reducing\
the cyclical responsiveness of the model.\
The increased cyclical performance of Model II arises as its estimated zpro-\
cess becomes more persistent and less volatile, creating more responsive zscut-\
offs leading to stronger cyclical responses in job separations, as well as much more\
episodes of rest unemployment over all A. Figure 17.b shows that rest unemploy-\
ment episodes are now more prominent than search unemployment episodes even\
during economic recoveries. It is only for the highest values of Athat search un-\
35In these versions of the model the behavior of spells with durations beyond 18 months might also\
impact the overall unemployment rate more than empirically warranted, especially as persistence\
can create a \'93\uc0\u64257 rst-in last-out pattern\'94 when entering a recession in the form of very long unemploy-\
ment spells for those who lost their job early on in the recession. We focus on the distribution of spells\
up to 18 months because censoring issues in the SIPP restrict how accurately we can investigate the\
behavior of very long spells over the cycle.\
69\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 71 of 269]\
Figure 17: Unemployment Decomposition - Models Without Occupational Mobility\
(a) All Workers - Model I\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest (b) All Workers - Model II\
0.00.20.40.60.8Proportion of Unemp. Type\
0.96 0.98 1.00 1.02 1.04\
Aggegrate Productivity Level ( A) Search Rest\
employment is more prominent, but only by a relatively small margin. With more\
responsive zscutoffs, an aggregate shock can now move somewhat larger masses\
of workers from rest into search unemployment episodes creating more ampli\uc0\u64257 ca-\
tion. This result is in line with Chassamboulli (2013), who extends the DMP model\
by adding permanent productivity differences among workers and shows that this\
feature increases it cyclical performance relative to the data. Table 14 demonstrates,\
however, that this comes at the cost of not being able to match the distribution of\
unemployment durations nor the dynamic behavior of this distribution over the cy-\
cle.36Thus, in Model II the average unemployment rate responds more to the cycle\
as aggregate productivity takes on a more prominent role in shaping the amount\
of rest unemployment, but the individual unemployment outcomes that underlie\
these dynamics become counterfactual.\
The possibility of occupational mobility would have given workers in rest un-\
employment episodes another margin through which they can escape the area of\
inaction and get re-employed faster. As a result, the individual-level unemploy-\
ment duration dependence (given an aggregate state) is not only affected by zsbut\
also by the distance to zr. Further, since the zrcutoff is at different distances from the\
zsacross the cycle, it creates a more cyclically sensitive area of inaction. That is, oc-\
36An extrapolation from the above discussion appears to suggest a model with permanent hetero-\
geneity, where all moves in and out of rest unemployment would be because of aggregate productiv-\
ity changes, cannot resolve the tension between cyclical performance and \uc0\u64257 tting the unemployment\
duration distribution moments. In principle our estimation allows and has evaluated in its procedure\
parameter tuples with a near-permanent z-productivity process (i.e. a persistence approximating 1).\
However, such parameter tuples yield larger deviations from the individual-level unemployment\
outcomes we targeted compared to Model II.\
70\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 72 of 269]\
cupational mobility creates a more responsive area of inaction with respect to both\
worker heterogeneity and the business cycle that resolves the tensions discussed\
above.\
References\
[1] Carrillo-Tudela, Carlos and Ludo Visschers (2020): \'93Unemployment and En-\
dogenous Separations over the Business Cycle\'94. IZA DP No. 13307, Germany.\
[2] Chassamboulli, Andri (2013): \'93Labor-Market Volatility in a Matching Model\
with Worker Heterogeneity and Endogenous Separations\'94. Labour Economics ,\
24: 217-229.\
[3] Kambourov, Gueorgui and Iourii Manovskii. (2009): \'93Occupational Speci\uc0\u64257 city\
of Human Capital\'94. International Economic Review , 50(1): 63-115.\
71\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 73 of 269]\
SUPPLEMENTARY APPENDICES\
72\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 74 of 269]\
Supplementary Appendix A: Occupational Coding Error\
and its Correction\
This appendix complements Section 2 of the paper and expands Online Ap-\
pendix A. Here we quantify the extent to which coding errors affect the probabil-\
ity of an occupational change after a non-employment spell. This is done in two\
ways. (1) We exploit the change from independent to dependent interviewing that\
occurred across the 1985 and 1986 SIPP panels, which overlap between February\
1986 to April 1987. The change of interviewing technique allows us to estimate a\
garbling matrix Gwhose elements denote the probability that a worker\'92s true oc-\
cupation igets miscoded as another occupation j. (2) We then take advantage of\
the retrospective coding exercise done to occupational codes in the PSID. Retrospec-\
tive coding improved the assignment of the occupational codes obtained during the\
1970s, but did not affect the codes obtained during later years (see also Kambourov\
and Manovskii, 2008). We use probabilistic models to estimate the average effect\
retrospective coding had on the probability of an occupational change.\
Across these data sets we obtain a very similar conclusion. Our correction method\
implies that on average 82% of the observed wave-to-wave occupational transitions\
after re-employment in the SIPP are genuine, were each wave covers a 4 months\
interval. In stark contrast, when pooling together workers who changed and did\
not change employers, we \uc0\u64257 nd that 40% of the observed changes among all work-\
ers are genuine. Similarly, retrospective coding in the PSID implies that 84% of\
the observed year-to-year occupational transitions after re-employment are genuine.\
When pooling together workers who changed and did not change employers, ret-\
rospective coding implies that only 44% are genuine. A key insight is that the same\
propensities to miscode occupations affect very differently the measured occupa-\
tional change of employer movers and employer stayers. This is important as it\
implies one cannot use the error correction estimates obtained from pooled sam-\
ples to adjust the occupational mobility statistics of those who changed employers\
through spells of unemployment.\
We use the estimated G-correction matrix to eliminate the impact of coding er-\
rors on the occupational mobility statistics of the unemployed obtained from the\
SIPP . We show that occupational miscoding increases observed excess mobility and\
73\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 75 of 269]\
reduces the importance of net mobility (see also Kambourov and Manovskii, 2013).\
It also makes occupational mobility appear less responsive to unemployment dura-\
tion and the business cycle. In Supplementary Appendix B we use the SIPP to eval-\
uate robustness of the occupational mobility patterns derived from our G-correction\
method. To do so, we follow two alternative approaches of measuring occupational\
mobility: (i) simultaneously mobility of major occupational and major industrial\
groups at re-employment and (ii) self-reported duration of occupational tenure ob-\
tained from the topical modules. The \uc0\u64257 rst measure is considered less sensitive to\
miscoding as it typically requires errors to be made simultaneously along two di-\
mensions. The second captures the worker\'92s own perception of occupational mo-\
bility and is not based on occupational coding. We \uc0\u64257 nd that the occupational mo-\
bility patterns obtained through our classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model applied to the SIPP ,\
the retrospective coding in the PSID and these alternative measures provide a very\
consistent picture.\
A.1 A classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model\
In Section 2.1 of the main text we de\uc0\u64257 ned the matrix G, where its elements are\
the probabilities that an occupation iis miscoded as an occupation j, for all i,j=\
1, 2, ..., O. There is an important literature that investigates classi\uc0\u64257 cation error mod-\
els. Magnac and Visser (1999) identify two main branches. The \uc0\u64257 rst one uses as-\
sumptions on the measurement error process and auxiliary data on the error rates,\
where it is assumed that the error rates can be directly observe from the auxiliary\
data (see Abowd and Zellner, 1985, Poterba and Summers, 1986, and Magnac and\
Visser, 1999, among others). The second one does not rely on auxiliary data on error\
rates, but estimates parametric models in the presence of misclassi\uc0\u64257 ed data, where\
these models are either reduced form statistical models (see Hausman et al. 1998,\
among others) or structural economic models (see Kean and Wolpin, 2001, Sullivan,\
2009, Roys and Taber, 2017, among others).\
Our classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model builds on Abowd and Zellner (1985) and Poterba\
and Summer (1986) in that it uses a garbling matrix that captures the errors made in\
classifying workers. These authors investigate the misclassi\uc0\u64257 cation of individuals\'92\
employment status in the CPS and use reported employment status at the original\
74\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 76 of 269]\
interview date, at the re-interviewing date (which occurred one week after the orig-\
inal interview) and the reconciliation information provided by the CPS to directly\
observe the garbling matrix. Their key assumption is that the reconcile informa-\
tion provides the true individuals\'92 labor market status. In contrast, we do not have\
auxiliary information that allows us to directly recover the garbling matrix. Our\
challenge is to estimate the garbling matrix.\
Our classi\uc0\u64257 cation error model also relates to Sullivan (2009) in that both ap-\
proaches provide estimates of an occupation garbling matrix. In contrast, our ap-\
proach does not rely on the observed optimal choices of economic agents for iden-\
ti\uc0\u64257 cation. Rather, miscoding can be estimated using the occupational transitions\
alone, without requiring further information on wages which themselves can be\
subject to measurement error. Therefore, it is much simpler to implement relative to\
Sullivan\'92s (2009) approach which relies on time costly simulation maximum likeli-\
hood methods that end up restricting the size of the estimated garbling matrix. This\
is important as it reduces the overall computational burden when estimating our\
economic model.\
To identify and estimate Gwe make three assumptions:\
(A1)Independent classi\uc0\u64257 cation errors : conditional on the true occupation, the real-\
ization of an occupational code does not depend on workers\'92 labor market histories,\
demographic characteristics or the time it occurred in our sample. This assumption\
is also present in Poterba and Summers (1986) and Abowd and Zellner (1985) and\
is consistent with independent interviewing. In the standard practise of indepen-\
dent interviewing, professional coders base their coding on the verbatim descrip-\
tion of the reported work activities without taking into account the respondents\'92\
demographic characteristics or earlier work history.37Errors introduced by the re-\
spondents, however, could be correlated with their characteristics. Assumption A1\
implies that errors in the individuals\'92 verbatim responses are fully captured by the\
nature of the job these individuals are performing and hence only depend on their\
true occupation. Another implication of assumption A1is that Gis time-invariant.\
This is important as we will apply our correction method across all years in our\
37For example, during the 1980s and 1990s independent occupational coding in the PSID was done\
without reference to respondents\'92 characteristics or their work history. However, this information\
was used in the retrospective coding exercise done to the 1970s occupational codes.\
75\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 77 of 269]\
sample and one could be concern whether the coding errors estimated in the 1980\'92s\
are similar to those founds 20 years later. In Section 4 (below) we investigate further\
these implications.\
(A2)\'93Detailed balance\'94 in miscoding :diag(c)Gis symmetric, where cis aOx1 vec-\
tor that describes the distribution of workers across occupations and diag(c)is the\
diagonal matrix of c. This assumption is known as \'93detailed balance\'94. It implies\
that the number of workers whose true occupation igets mistakenly coded as jis\
the same as the number of workers whose true occupation jgets mistakenly coded\
asi, such that the overall size of occupations do not change with coding error. This\
assumption allow us to invert Gand hence aids our identi\uc0\u64257 cation arguments. Al-\
though undeniably strong, this assumption is a weaker version of the one proposed\
by Keane and Wolpin (2001) and subsequently used Roys and Taber (2017) to correct\
of occupation miscoding. We return to discuss A2in Section 4.\
(A3)Strict diagonal dominance :Gis strictly diagonally dominant in that gii>0.5\
for all i=1, 2, ..., O. This assumption is also present in Hausman et al., (1998) and\
implies that it is more likely to correctly code a given occupation ithan to miscoded\
it. The converse would imply occupational mobility rates that are of a magnitude\
inconsistent with our data. Indeed, we derive an upper bound on code error directly\
from the data and \uc0\u64257 nd that A3is veri\u64257 ed in our data.\
To estimate Gwe exploit the change of survey design between the 1985 and 1986\
SIPP panels. Until the 1985 panel the SIPP used independent interviewing for all\
workers: in each wave all workers were asked to describe their job anew, without\
reference to answers given at an earlier date. Subsequently, a coder would con-\
sider that wave\'92s verbatim descriptions and allocate occupational codes. This prac-\
tise is known to generate occupational coding errors. In the 1986 panel, instead,\
the practise changed to one of dependent interviewing (see Lynn and Sala, 2007,\
J\'e4ckle, 2008, and J\'e4ckle and Eckman, 2020). Respondents were only asked \'93inde-\
pendently\'94 to describe their occupation if they reported a change in employer or if\
they reported a change in their main activities without an employer change within\
the last 8 months. If respondents declared no change in employer andin their main\
activities, the occupational code assigned to the respondent in the previous wave is\
carried forward.\
It is important to note that during February 1986 to April 1987, the 1985 and 1986\
76\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 78 of 269]\
panels overlap, representing the same population under different survey designs.\
The identi\uc0\u64257 cation theory we develop in the next section refers to this population.\
We then show how to consistently estimate Gusing the population samples.\
A.1.1 Identi\uc0\u64257 cation of G\
Consider the population represented by 1985/86 panels during the overlapping\
period and divide it into two groups of individuals across consecutive interviews\
by whether or not they changed employer or activity. Label those workers who\
stayed with their employers in both interviews and did not change activity as \'93em-\
ployer/activity stayers\'94. By design this group only contains true occupational stay-\
ers. Similarly, label those workers who changed employers or changed activity\
within their employers as \'93employer/activity changers\'94. By design this group con-\
tains all true occupational movers and the set of true occupational stayers who\
changed employers.\
Suppose that we were to subject the employer/activity stayers in this population\
to dependent interviewing as applied in the 1986 panel. Let csdenote the Ox1 vector\
that describes their true distribution across occupations and let Ms=diag(cs). In\
what follows we will use the convention that the (i,j)\'92th element of an Mmatrix\
indicates the \uc0\u64258 ow from occupation itoj. Let cD\
sdenote the Ox1 vector that describes\
their observed distribution across occupations under dependent interviewing and let\
MD\
s=diag(cD\
s). Note that cD\
s=G0Ms !1, where !1describes a vector of ones. Ms\
is pre-multiplied by G0as true occupations would have been miscoded in the \uc0\u64257 rst of\
the two consecutive interviews. \'93Overall balance\'94, a weaker version of A2, implies\
that cD\
s=diag(cs)G !1=csand hence MD\
s=Ms.38\
Next suppose that instead we were to subject the employer/activity stayers in\
this population to independent interviewing as applied in the 1985 panel. Let MI\
s\
denote the matrix that contains these workers\'92 observed occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows\
under independent interviewing. In this case MI\
s=G0MsG. Here Msis pre-multiplied\
byG0and post-multiplied by Gto take into account that the observed occupations of\
origin and destination would be subject to coding error.\
38Overall balance only requires that classi\uc0\u64257 cation errors do not change the overall occupational\
distribution rather than the bilateral \uc0\u64258 ows between occupations as also required by detailed balance\
inA2.\
77\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 79 of 269]\
LetMmdenote the matrix that contains the true occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows of\
employer/activity changers in this population. The diagonal of Mmdescribes the\
distribution of true occupational stayers across occupations among employer/activity\
changers. The off-diagonal elements contain the \uc0\u64258 ows of all true occupational movers.\
Under independent interviewing we observe MI\
m=G0MmG. Once again Mmis pre-\
multiplied by G0and post-multiplied by Gas the observed occupations of origin and\
destination would be subject to coding error.\
Letting MI=MI\
m+MI\
sdenote the matrix that contains the aggregate occupa-\
tional transition \uc0\u64258 ows across two interview dates under independent interviewing,\
it follows that MI\
s=MIMI\
m=G0MsG. By virtue of the symmetry of Msand \'93de-\
tailed balance\'94 ( A2),MsG=G0Ms0=G0Ms. Substituting back yields MI\
s=MsGG.\
Next note that MI\
s=MsTI\
s, where TI\
sis the occupational transition probability ma-\
trix of the employer/activity stayers in this population observed under independent\
interviewing. Substitution yields MsTI\
s=MsGG. Multiply both sides by M1\
s,\
which exists as long as all the diagonal elements of Msare non-zero, yields the key\
relationship we exploit to estimate G,\
TI\
s=GG. (8)\
To use this equation we \uc0\u64257 rst need to show that it implies a unique solution for\
G. Towards this result, we now establish that Gand TI\
sare diagonalizable. For the\
latter it is useful to interpret the coding error process described above as a Markov\
chain such that Gis the one-step probability matrix associated with this process.\
Lemma A.1: Assumptions A2 and A3 imply that GandTI\
sare diagonalizable.\
Proof. First note that without loss of generality we can consider the one-step prob-\
ability matrix Gto be irreducible. To show this suppose that Gwas not irreducible,\
we can (without loss of generality) apply a permutation matrix to re-order occu-\
pations in Gand create a block-diagonal G0, where each block is irreducible and\
can be considered in isolation. Given A3, it follows directly that Gis aperiodic.\
Further, assumption A2implies that csis a stationary distribution of G. The fun-\
damental theorem of Markov chains then implies that csis the unique stationary\
distribution of G. Assumption A2also implies that the Markov chain characterised\
78\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 80 of 269]\
byGis reversible with respect to cs. This means that Gis similar (in matrix sense)\
to a symmetric matrix Gsuch that G=diag(pcs)Gdiag(pcs)1. By symme-\
try,Gis orthogonally diagonalizable by QDQ1, where the diagonal matrix Dcon-\
tains the associated (real) eigenvalues and Qis the orthogonal matrix of associated\
(normalized) eigenvectors. It then follows that Gis diagonalizable as well. Fur-\
ther, TI\
s=diag(pcs)1G G diag (pcs) =diag(pcs)1QD2Q1diag(pcs), and\
hence TI\
sis also orthogonally diagonalizable, with a root of PL0.5P1, where Lis\
the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues of TI\
s, and Pthe associated orthogonal matrix\
with eigenvectors of TI\
s.\
In general one cannot guarantee the uniqueness, or even existence, of a transition\
matrix that is the (nth)root of another transition matrix (see Higham and Lin, 2011).\
Here, however, existence is obtained by construction: Tsis constructed from G, and\
in reverse, we can \uc0\u64257 nd its roots. The next result shows that Tshas a unique root\
satisfying assumptions A2and A3.\
Proposition A.1: Gis the unique solution to TI\
s=G Gthat satis\uc0\u64257 es assumptions A2 and\
A3. It is given by PL0.5P1, where Lis the diagonal matrix with eigenvalues of TI\
s,0<\
li1, and Pis the orthogonal matrix with the associated (normalized) eigenvectors.\
Proof. Following from the proof of Lemma A.1, a root of TI\
sis given by PL0.5P1,\
where Lis the diagonal matrix with eigenvalues of TI\
sand Pis the orthogonal ma-\
trix with the associated (normalized) eigenvectors. Since A3implies Gis strictly di-\
agonally dominant, it follows that the determinant of all its leading principal minors\
are positive. Moreover, under the similarity transform by pre-/post-multiplication\
with the diagonal matrices diag(pcs),diag(pcs)1, the determinant of all princi-\
pals minors of the symmetric matrix G=diag(pcs)Gdiag(pcs)1are positive\
as well. Hence Gis a symmetric positive de\uc0\u64257 nite matrix (with all eigenvalues be-\
tween 0 and 1, as has G). It follows that G G =Sis also positive de\uc0\u64257 nite, and\
TI\
s=diag(pcs)1S diag (pcs)is positive de\uc0\u64257 nite in the sense that v0TI\
sv>0 for\
allv6=0, while also all eigenvalues of TI\
swill be between 0 and 1.\
To show the uniqueness of the root of TI\
ssuppose (towards a contradiction)\
that there exists two different roots GandUsuch that each are similar (in matrix\
sense), with the same transform involving diag(pcs), to different symmetric pos-\
itive de\uc0\u64257 nite matrices Gand Y, where G G =Sand Y Y=S. Both Gand Y\
79\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 81 of 269]\
are diagonalizable, and have the square roots of the eigenvalues of Son the diago-\
nal. Given that the squares of the eigenvalues need to coincide with the eigenval-\
ues of Sand assumptions A2and A3imply that all eigenvalues must be between\
0 and 1, without loss of generality we can consider both diagonalizations to have\
the same diagonal matrix D, where Dis the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues of TI\
s\
and these eigenvalues are ordered using a permutation-similarity transform with\
the appropriate permutation matrices. Let G=HDH1and Y=KDK1. Then,\
it follows that K1HD2H1K=D2and since K1HandD2commute, implies that\
K1His a block-diagonal matrix with the size of the blocks corresponding to the\
multiplicity of squared eigenvalues. Again, since all eigenvalues of Dare positive,\
this equals the multiplicity of the eigenvalues diitself. But then it must be true that\
K1HDH1K=D. Then, G=HDH1=KK1HDH1KK1=KDK1=Y\
which leads to a contradiction.\
The above results imply that under assumptions A2and A3,Gis uniquely iden-\
ti\uc0\u64257 ed from the transition matrix of true occupational stayers under independent\
interviewing, TI\
s.\
A.1.2 Estimation of G\
The next lemma provides an intermediate step towards estimating G. For this pur-\
pose let PDT(.)denote the space of transition matrices that are similar, in the matrix\
sense, to positive de\uc0\u64257 nite matrices.\
Lemma A.2: The function f :PDT(ROO)!PDT(ROO)given by f (T) = T0.5\
exists and is continuous with f (TI\
s) =Gin the spectral matrix norm.\
Proof. Existence follows from Lemma A.1 and Proposition A.1. To establish con-\
tinuity of the mapping, we follow Horn and Johnson (1990). Let T1and T2be\
any two transition matrices in PDT and let U1and U2be two symmetric posi-\
tive de\uc0\u64257 nite matrices constructed as U1=diag(pc1)T1diag(pc1)1and U2=\
diag(pc2)T2diag(pc2)1, where c1and c2are the unique stationary distributions\
associated with T1and T2, respectively. We want to show that if U1!U2, then\
U0.5\
1!U0.5\
2. First, note thatkU1U2k2=kU0.5\
1(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2) + ( U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)U0.5\
2k2\
80\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 82 of 269]\
jx0U0.5\
1(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)x+x0(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)U0.5\
2xj, where xis any normalised vector. As-\
sumptions A2and A3imply U0.5\
1U0.5\
2exists and is a symmetric matrix. Let jlj=\
r(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)be the absolute value of the largest eigenvalue of U0.5\
1U0.5\
2and\
letzbe the normalized eigenvector associated with l. Note thatkU1U2k2=\
jljand(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)z=lz. Thenjz0U0.5\
1(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)z+z0(U0.5\
1U0.5\
2)U0.5\
2zj\
jljjl0.5\
min(U1) +l0.5\
min(U2)j=kU0.5\
1U0.5\
2k2(l0.5\
min(U1) +l0.5\
min(U2)), where lmin(U1)\
denotes the smallest eigenvalue of U2, which is positive by virtue of assumptions\
A2and A3. Then choose a d=#l0.5\
min(U1). It follows that if kU1U2k2<d, then\
kU0.5\
1U0.5\
2k2(l0.5\
min(U1)+l0.5\
min(U2))\
l0.5\
min(U1)<#, and thereforekU0.5\
1U0.5\
2k2<#, which\
establishes the desired continuity. From the fact that U1!U2implies U0.5\
1!U0.5\
2,\
it then also follows that f(T)is continuous.\
Let \'88TI\
sdenote the sample estimate of TI\
sand let \'88Gbe estimated by the root\
(\'88TI\
s)0.52PDT(ROO)such that \'88G= ( \'88TI\
s)0.5=\'88P\'88L0.5\'88P1, where \'88Lis the diago-\
nal matrix with eigenvalues of \'88TI\
s, 0<\'88li0.51 and \'88Pthe orthogonal matrix with\
the associated (normalized) eigenvectors. We then have the following result.\
Proposition A.2: Gis consistently estimated from (\'88TI\
s)0.52PDT(ROO)such that \'88G=\
(\'88TI\
s)0.5=\'88P\'88L0.5\'88P1. That is, plim n!\'a5\'88G=G.\
Proof. From Lemma A.1 and Proposition A.1 it follows that if we know TI\
s, then\
we can \uc0\u64257 nd the unique Gthat underlies it, constructing it from the eigenvalues and\
eigenvectors of TI\
s. To estimate TI\
sone can use the sample proportion \'88Mij/\'e5O\
k=1\'88Mik\
and note that this converges in probability to (TI\
s)ij(see Anderson and Goodman,\
1957; Billingsley 1961, thm 1.1-3.) for all occupations, given assumptions A2and\
A3. Hence, plim n!\'a5\'88TI\
s=TI\
s. Then, we derive \'88Gfrom\'88TI\
saccording to \'88P\'88L0.5\'88P1,\
per Proposition A.1. By continuity of the mapping in Lemma A.2, it follows that\
plim n!\'a5\'88G=G, and our estimator is consistent.\
Note that to identify and estimate Gin the SIPP it is not suf\uc0\u64257 cient to directly\
compare the aggregate occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows under independent interview-\
ing with the aggregate occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows under dependent interviewing.\
To show this let MD=MI\
m+MD\
sdenote the matrix that contains the aggregate\
occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows across two interview dates under dependent inter-\
viewing for employer/activity stayers and under independent interviewing for em-\
81\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 83 of 269]\
ployer/activity movers. Subtracting MI=MI\
m+MI\
sfrom MDyields MD\
sMI\
s=\
MsG0MsG. Given the symmetry assumed in A2, the latter expression has 0.5 n(n\
1)exogenous variables on the LHS and 0.5 n(n+1)unknowns (endogenous vari-\
ables) on the RHS, leaving G(and Ms) unidenti\uc0\u64257 ed.\
In addition to MDMI=MsG0MsGone can use MD=G0MmG+Ms, which\
contains the remainder information. When Mmhas mass on its diagonal, however,\
this additional system of equations has n2exogenous variables on the LHS and n2\
unknowns (arising from Mm) on the RHS. This implies that with the nunknowns\
remaining from MDMI=MsG0MsG, one is still unable to identify Gand Ms.\
Corollary A.1: IfMmhas mass on its diagonal, Gcannot be identi\uc0\u64257 ed from MIandMD\
alone.\
The intuition behind this result is that by comparing aggregate occupational\
transition \uc0\u64258 ows under dependent and independent interviewing, it is unclear how\
many workers are \'91responsible\'92 for the change in occupational mobility between MD\
and MI. Only when the diagonal of Mmcontains exclusively zeros, identi\uc0\u64257 cation\
could be resolved and one can recover Ms,Gand Mmas the number of equations\
equals the number of unknowns.39An implication of the above corollary is that\
interrupted time-series analysis that is based on the difference in occupational mo-\
bility at the time of a switch from independent to dependent interviewing, does not\
identify the precise extent of the average coding error, but provides a downwards\
biased estimate.\
To identify G, however, Proposition A.2 implies that one can use the observed\
occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ows of a sample of true occupational stayers that are sub-\
ject to two rounds of independent interviewing. Some of these workers will appear\
as occupational stayers and some of them as occupational movers. Ideally, such a\
sample of workers should be isolated directly from the 1985 panel. Unfortunately,\
the questions on whether the individual changed activity or employer were only\
introduced in the 1986 panel, as a part of the switch to dependent interviewing.\
As a result, the 1985 panel by itself does not provide suf\uc0\u64257 cient information to sep-\
arate employer/activity stayers from employer/activity movers. Instead we use\
39However, in the SIPP this case is empirically unreasonable as it requires that all em-\
ployer/activity changers be true occupational movers.\
82\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 84 of 269]\
1986 panel to estimate \'88MI\
m. We can infer MI\
sindirectly by subtracting the observed\
occupational transition \uc0\u64258 ow matrix \'88MI\
min the 1986 panel from the observed occu-\
pational transition \uc0\u64258 ow matrix \'88MIin the 1985 panel. This is possible as the 1986\
panel refers to the same underlying population as the 1985 panel and separates the\
employer/activity changers, who are independently interviewed.\
Corollary A.2: \'88Gis consistently estimated from \'88TI\
swhen the latter is estimated from \'88MI\
\'88MI\
m\
This result is important to implement our approach. It follows as the population\
proportions underlying each cell of \'88Ms, the sample estimate of Ms, are consistently\
estimated. In turn, the latter follows from the standard central limit theorem for\
estimating proportions, which applies to \'88MI,\'88MI\
mand its difference. Proposition\
A.2 then implies that \'88Gis consistently estimated.\
A.1.3 Implementation\
To implement our correction method we take the overlapping period of the 1985/86\
panels. To increase the sample size we also use observations from the 1987 panel\
for the period between February 1987 and April 1987.40This panel has an identical\
setup to that of the 1986 panel (dependent interviewing and other relevant aspects)\
and is likewise representative of the population during the period of study.\
Interviews throughout the SIPP are conducted every four months and collect\
information pertaining to the last four months, where these four months are con-\
sidered to be a wave. We compare the reported occupational code of a worker in\
a given interview with the reported occupational code of that worker in the subse-\
quent interview. An observation is therefore a pair of occupational codes, a reported\
\'91source\'92 and (potentially identical) \'91destination\'92 occupation. To keep comparability\
across interviews as clean as possible, and to focus on measuring occupations in the\
primary job, we only consider those workers who throughout the two waves stayed\
in full-time employment and who reported having only one employer at any point\
in time. These restrictions imply that in the estimation of Gwe do not include non-\
temporary laid off workers who experienced a short unemployment episodes and\
40To avoid seasonality effects we re-weight all observations such that each observation in a given\
month has the same weight as another observation in any other month.\
83\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 85 of 269]\
returned to their same jobs and employers. We also restrict attention to those work-\
ers who do not have imputed occupations, were not enrolled in school and were\
between 19-66 years old. These restrictions yield 28,302 wave/individual observa-\
tions for the 1985 panel, 27,801 wave/individual observations for the 1986 panel\
and 5,922 wave/individual observations for the 1987 panel.\
Table 15: Demographic characteristics - February 1986 to April 1987\
SIPP 1985 SIPP 1986 SIPP 1987 p-value\
(no difference)\
Education\
less than high school 14.72 15.27 14.55 0.386\
high school grad 38.10 37.36 36.80 0.361\
some college 24.51 24.94 24.71 0.546\
college degree 22.67 22.43 23.95 0.746\
Age category\
19-24 12.29 12.62 12.90 0.458\
25-29 16.72 16.15 16.36 0.357\
30-34 15.84 15.40 16.00 0.512\
35-39 15.02 15.30 13.99 0.806\
40-44 11.65 11.50 11.80 0.804\
45-49 9.10 8.87 9.22 0.667\
50-54 7.72 7.90 8.25 0.600\
55-59 7.07 7.31 7.01 0.600\
60-64 4.20 4.64 4.05 0.221\
Ethicity\
white 86.29 86.57 86.25 0.729\
black 10.62 10.81 10.73 0.782\
american indian, eskimo 0.49 0.62 0.42 0.401\
asian or paci\uc0\u64257 c islander 2.60 2.01 2.60 0.090\
Other\
men 54.20 55.27 53.93 0.112\
married 65.51 66.15 64.54 0.550\
living in metro area 76.33 76.24 75.97 0.885\
Workers aged 19-66, not enrolled in school, in two adjacent waves, measured in the \uc0\u64257 rst month of the current wave, with employment\
in one \uc0\u64257 rm only in the previous wave, and employment in one (but possibly different) employer only in the wave that follows, without\
any self-employment, with un-imputed occupations reported in both waves. Person weights are used to scale observations per month\
within panel group (1985 versus 1986+1987).\
Tables 15 and 16 show the demographic and occupational characteristics (based\
on the major occupations of the 1990 SOC), respectively, of the samples across the\
three panels. In the last column of each table we test characteristic-by-characteristic\
whether the proportion of workers with a given characteristic in the 1985 sample is\
statistically indistinguishable from the proportion of workers with the same char-\
acteristic in the pooled 1986/87 sample. Across all the characteristics analysed, we\
84\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 86 of 269]\
cannot reject at a 5% level that the proportions in the 1985 sample and the corre-\
sponding proportions in the 1986-87 sample are the same. With the exception of the\
proportion of Asian Americans and the proportion of workers whose source occu-\
pation is management, similarity cannot be rejected even at a 10% level. Although\
not shown here, we also cannot rejected at a 10% level that the proportion of work-\
ers across source and destination industries are the same when comparing the 1985\
and 1986/87 samples. This analysis thus con\uc0\u64257 rm that the observations used for our\
exercise are taken from the same underlying population.41\
We estimate the occupational \uc0\u64258 ows of employer/activity stayers by \'88MI,85\'88MI,86/87\
m =\
\'88MI\
s, where x=85 (x=86/87) in \'88MI,x\
irefers to the 1985 sample (1986/87 sample). In\
the 1986/87 sample, where we can observe employer/activity changers directly, we\
\uc0\u64257 nd that in 2.31% of (weighted) observations workers changed employers and in\
4.65% workers report an activity change within their employers. This implies that\
more than 93% of the 1985 sample should be made up of employer/activity stayers.\
A potential concern from using this survey design change could be the reliabil-\
ity in the 1986 implementation of dependent interviewing and its comparison with\
the data collected in the overlapping period of the 1985 panel. For example, any\
trail/learning period in the implementation of dependent interviewing in the 1986\
panel could affect our results. To evaluate whether any trial/learning period in the\
implementation of dependent interviewing affected the occupational mobility rates\
we compare the occupational mobility rates obtained from the 1986 panel to those\
obtained from subsequent ones. Assuming improvements made after 1986 affected\
the measurement of occupational mobility, we should observe a meaningful change\
in these rates when using subsequent panels. Figure 18 (see below for a detail expla-\
nation of the graph) suggests that any trail/learning period in the implementation\
of dependent interviewing did not have a major effect on average occupational mo-\
bility.42\
41To further rule out any meaningful impact from the observed differences in occupational dis-\
tributions, we re-calculated all statistics after re-balancing the weights on the source/destination\
occupations to create identical occupational distributions. This exercise yields minimal effects on\
our statistics. For example, the observed occupational mobility changes by 0.01 percentage point at\
most. The reason for this small change is because there is the large proportion of the implied true\
stayers in the sample, which means that \'88TI\
sis not very sensitive to proportional changes in \'88MI\
m.\
42This is consistent with Hill (1994), who instead points to a potential higher level of attrition in the\
\'93older\'94 1985 panel relative to the \'93newer\'94 1986 panel as a concern. He argues that using the \'931986\
\uc0\u64257 nal panel weights, taken from the 1985 and 1986 Full Panel Longitudinal Research Files\'94, while not\
85\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 87 of 269]\
Table 16: Distribution of workers across occupations - February 1986 to April 1987\
Distribution across source occupations (occupation code) (%)\
SIPP 1985 SIPP 1986 SIPP 1987 p-value (no difference)\
managing occupations 12.31 13.11 13.99 0.064\
professional speciality 13.40 12.92 13.18 0.380\
technicians and related support 3.85 3.89 4.08 0.829\
sales occ. 9.74 9.98 9.86 0.599\
admin support 18.67 18.17 18.26 0.366\
services 10.96 11.66 11.19 0.166\
farming/\uc0\u64257 sh/logging 1.09 1.08 1.03 0.940\
mechanics and repairers 4.87 4.47 4.69 0.231\
construction and extractive 3.47 3.65 3.60 0.503\
precision production 4.01 4.19 3.75 0.643\
machine operators/assemblers 9.27 8.89 8.63 0.355\
transportation and materials moving 4.63 4.34 4.31 0.340\
laborers 3.73 3.66 3.42 0.714\
Distribution across destination occupations (occupation code) (%)\
managing occupations 12.58 13.27 14.18 0.103\
professional speciality 13.31 12.90 13.10 0.451\
technicians and related support 3.82 3.92 4.01 0.693\
sales occ. 9.76 9.89 9.77 0.797\
admin support 18.53 18.20 18.20 0.546\
services 10.96 11.57 11.19 0.229\
farming/\uc0\u64257 sh/logging 1.08 1.07 1.03 0.924\
mechanics and repairers 4.87 4.46 4.73 0.222\
construction and extractive 3.59 3.60 3.56 0.954\
precision production 4.01 4.26 3.77 0.480\
machine operators/assemblers 9.24 8.93 8.77 0.455\
transportation and materials moving 4.62 4.31 4.33 0.310\
laborers 3.62 3.62 3.36 0.906\
Workers aged 19-66, not enrolled in school, in two adjacent waves, measured in the \uc0\u64257 rst month of the current wave, with employment\
in one \uc0\u64257 rm only in the previous wave, and employment in one (but possibly different) \u64257 rm only in the wave that follows, without\
any self-employment, with un-imputed occupations reported in both waves. Person weights are used to scale observations per month\
within panel group (1985 versus 1986+1987).\
A.2 Results and Discussion\
Table 3 shows the occupational transition matrix \'88TI\
sfor true occupational stayers\
derived from \'88MI\
susing the 1985 sample based on the major occupations of the 1990\
SOC. The (i,j)\'92th element of \'88TI\
sindicates the transition probability from occupation\
itoj. This matrix implies that 18.46% of true occupational stayers get classi\uc0\u64257 ed as\
perfect, seem to be the best available solution to tackle this problem. We follow the same practice in\
our analysis.\
86\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 88 of 269]\
occupational movers.43Although not shown here, a similar conclusion arises when\
we calculate the same matrix based on the 2000 SOC, which we use for our results\
in the main text.\
Table 17: Observed occupational transition matrix of true occupational stayers, SOC\
1990, \'88TI\
s, (%)\
OCCUPATIONS (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13)\
(1) Managing Occ. 75.7 3.7 1.0 5.1 8.8 1.5 0.1 0.7 0.7 1.5 0.5 0.4 0.3\
(2) Professional Spec. 3.3 87.9 2.9 0.4 2.2 1.5 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.1\
(3) Technicians 3.1 10.1 69.5 0.5 5.9 3.8 0.1 2.7 0.6 1.3 2.1 0.2 0.3\
(4) Sales Occ. 6.5 0.5 0.2 83.3 3.8 1.5 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.8 1.8\
(5) Admin. Support 5.8 1.6 1.2 2.0 84.5 1.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.7 0.6 1.6\
(6) Services 1.7 1.8 1.3 1.3 1.8 87.2 0.2 1.3 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.9\
(7) Farm/Fish/Logging 1.3 1.7 0.5 1.3 1.1 2.0 84.7 0.6 0.6 0.2 1.0 3.1 2.0\
(8) Mechanics 1.8 1.3 2.1 1.3 1.1 2.9 0.1 79.2 2.1 2.6 3.0 0.8 1.6\
(9) Construction 2.4 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 2.2 0.2 3.0 77.7 1.7 1.9 1.2 7.6\
(10) Precision Prod. 4.5 2.0 1.2 1.1 2.4 1.4 0.0 3.2 1.5 69.1 11.1 0.2 2.3\
(11) Mach. Operators 0.7 0.3 0.9 0.2 1.4 0.7 0.1 1.6 0.7 4.8 84.1 0.7 3.8\
(12) Transport 1.1 0.4 0.2 1.6 2.2 1.4 0.7 0.8 0.9 0.2 1.5 85.1 3.9\
(13) Laborers 1.0 0.4 0.3 4.6 8.2 2.7 0.6 2.1 7.3 2.5 9.7 5.0 55.7\
A.2.1 The estimate of G\
Following Proposition A.1we can then recover the garbling matrix Gby using \'88TI\
s\
and equation (8). Table 4 shows the estimated \'88Gbased on the major occupations of\
the 1990 SOC, while Table 19 shows the estimated \'88Gbased on the major occupations\
of the 2000 SOC. These estimates imply that on average the incorrect occupational\
code is assigned in around 10% of the cases. Since a spurious transition is likely to\
be created when either the source or destination occupation is miscoded, the proba-\
bility of observing a spurious transition for a true occupational stayer is nearly twice\
as large. Our methodology then suggests that coding error is indeed substantial un-\
43This value lies within the expected bounds. To construct an upper bound consider the 1985\
sample and assume that all observed occupational transitions are spurious. In this case we can\
expect that at most 19.71% of the observations would be miscoded. To construct a lower bound\
consider the 1986/87 sample and calculate the number of observations in which an occupational\
move is reported among the employer/activity changers. These observations account for 2.60% of\
all observations in the 1986/87 sample. Assuming that the effect of miscoding is to generate a net\
increase in the number of occupational changes, we can expect that at least 19.71%-2.60% =17.11% of\
the observations would be miscoded.\
87\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 89 of 269]\
der independent interviewing. Its magnitude is of similar order as found in other\
studies analysing the extent of errors in occupational coding (see Campanelli et al.,\
1997, Sullivan, 2009, Roys and Taber, 2017, and vom Lehn et al., 2021).\
Table 18: Estimate of the garbling matrix, SOC 1990, \'88G, (%)\
OCCUPATIONS (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13)\
(1) Managing Occ. 86.8 2.0 0.5 2.8 4.9 0.8 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.2 0.2 0.1\
(2) Professional Spec. 1.8 93.7 1.6 0.2 1.1 0.8 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.0\
(3) Technicians 1.7 5.6 83.3 0.2 3.3 2.1 0.1 1.5 0.3 0.7 1.1 0.1 0.1\
(4) Sales Occ. 3.6 0.2 0.1 91.2 1.9 0.8 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.4 1.0\
(5) Admin. Support 3.2 0.8 0.7 1.0 91.8 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0\
(6) Services 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.9 93.3 0.1 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5\
(7) Farm/Fish/Logging 0.7 0.9 0.3 0.7 0.5 1.0 92.0 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.5 1.7 1.1\
(8) Mechanics 1.0 0.6 1.2 0.7 0.5 1.5 0.1 88.9 1.2 1.5 1.6 0.4 0.9\
(9) Construction 1.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.0 1.1 0.1 1.6 88.0 0.9 0.8 0.6 4.7\
(10) Precision Prod. 2.6 1.0 0.7 0.6 1.2 0.7 0.0 1.8 0.8 83.0 6.3 0.1 1.3\
(11) Mach. Operators 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.7 0.4 0.1 0.8 0.3 2.7 91.5 0.4 2.3\
(12) Transport 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.8 1.1 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.7 92.2 2.3\
(13) Laborers 0.3 0.1 0.1 2.7 4.8 1.5 0.3 1.2 4.5 1.4 5.7 3.0 74.3\
Two additional messages come out of Tables 4 and 19. (i) Different occupations\
have very different propensities to be assigned a wrong code. For example, when\
using the 1990 SOC we \uc0\u64257 nd that individuals whose true occupation is \'93laborers\'94\
have a 74% probability of being coded correctly, while individuals whose true occu-\
pation is \'93professional speciality\'94 have a 94% probability of being coded correctly.\
(ii) Given a true occupation, some coding mistakes are much more likely than oth-\
ers. For example, workers whose true occupation is \'93laborers\'94 have a much larger\
probability to be miscoded as \'93machine operators\'94 (5.7%), \'93construction\'94 (4.5%) or\
\'93admin. support\'94 (4.8%) than as \'93managers\'94 (0.3%) or \'93professionals\'94 (0.1%). Our\
methodology enable us to take these differences into account by correcting observed\
occupational \uc0\u64258 ows by source-destination occupation pair. This provides cleaner net\
mobility estimates, where the identity of the origin and destination occupation mat-\
ters.\
88\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 90 of 269]\
Table 19: Estimate of the garbling matrix, SOC 2000, \'88G, (%)\
OCCUPATIONS (11) (13) (15) (17) (19) (21) (23) (25) (27) (29) (31) (33) (35) (37) (39) (41) (43) (45) (47) (49) (51) (53)\
(11) Management Occ. 84.2 2.3 0.3 0.8 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.4 3.3 3.5 0.5 0.7 0.5 1.2 0.3\
(13) Business & Finance Oper. 4.7 82.8 0.9 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.6 7.6 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.1\
(15) Computer & Math. Occ. 2.6 3.7 85.7 1.6 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.4 0.0 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.2\
(17) Architect & Eng. Occ. 2.2 0.7 0.5 87.0 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 1.1 0.0 0.9 2.4 2.2 0.1\
(19) Life, Phys, and Soc. Sci. Occ. 2.4 0.6 0.4 3.3 82.9 0.0 0.2 1.1 0.4 2.2 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.3 1.7 0.7 0.5 1.1 1.0 0.3\
(21) Comm & Soc. Service Occ. 2.8 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 89.8 0.0 1.0 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.0 2.6 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3\
(23) Legal 1.3 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 93.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 3.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0\
(25) Educ., Training & Library 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.0 97.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0\
(27) Arts, Dsgn, Ent., Sports & Media 1.0 0.2 0.6 3.8 0.5 0.4 0.0 0.3 89.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 1.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 1.7 0.4\
(29) Healthcare Pract. & Tech. Occ. 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.0 92.7 3.3 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1\
(31) Healthcare Support 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.5 0.0 0.2 0.0 6.8 88.5 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.0\
(33) Protective Service 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 95.0 0.5 0.1 0.2 0.1 1.8 0.3 0.0 0.1 0.4 0.5\
(35) Food Prep/Serving & Rel. 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.2 95.3 0.5 0.0 1.5 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.2\
(37) Building/grounds Clean. & Maint. 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.6 90.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.3 1.7 2.5 1.1 1.8\
(39) Personal Care & Service Occ. 3.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.1 1.6 0.0 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.0 0.3 91.4 0.9 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2\
(41) Sales & Rel. Occ. 3.0 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.1 0.1 91.7 1.7 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 1.3\
(43) Of\uc0\u64257 ce & Admin. Support 1.7 1.8 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.9 91.6 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.6 1.3\
(45) Farm, Fish. & Forestry 4.5 0.2 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.1 0.9 0.1 0.7 0.3 87.5 0.1 0.3 0.8 3.4\
(47) Construction & Extraction 1.3 0.1 0.0 0.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.0 90.8 1.6 1.9 2.1\
(49) Install., Maint. & Repair Occ. 0.8 0.1 0.1 1.4 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.4 89.0 3.0 1.1\
(51) Production Occ. 0.8 0.2 0.0 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.8 0.0 0.6 1.1 93.1 1.9\
(53) Transportation & Mater. Moving 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.0 1.5 2.9 0.4 1.2 0.7 3.4 88.2\
89\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 91 of 269]\
A.2.2 The effect of \'88Gon the gross occupational mobility rate\
Figure 18 depicts the effect of \'88Gwhen computing wave-to-wave occupational mobility\
rates using the major occupational groups of the 2000 SOC. For this exercise we aug-\
ment the 1985/86/87 samples with workers from the 1984 and 1988 panels, which\
satisfy the same sample restrictions as before. Figure 18 depicts the average wave-\
to-wave occupational mobility rate obtained during each year. For the year 1986\
we only use the observations that cover the February to December period obtained\
from the 1986 sample. We label these observations \'931986s\'94 as they are the ones we\
use in our original sample to estimate \'88G. In the case of the year 1987, we present the\
average occupational mobility rate obtained for the January to April period (labelled\
\'931987s\'94) separately from the average occupational mobility rate obtained from the\
remaining months (labelled \'931987r\'94). The two vertical lines mark the time period\
in which dependent and independent interviewing overlap.\
0 .05 .1 .15 .2 Occupational Mobility Rate\
(wave to wave)\
1984 1985 1986s 1987s 1987r 1988\
Time\
Independent Interviewing (before correction) \
Independent Interviewing (after correction)\
Dependent Interviewing (before correction)\
Dependent Interviewing (after correction)(workers employed during two adjacent waves)Coding-Error Correction of Occupational Mobility\
Figure 18: Correcting occupational mobility rates for workers employed in two sub-\
sequent waves\
The short-dashed line with hollow circular markers depicts the observed occu-\
pational mobility rates obtained from pooling together employer/activity stayers\
and changers using the 1984/85 samples, where all respondents were subject to in-\
dependent interviewing. This pooled sample yields occupational mobility rates that\
lie between 19.6%-20% and average 19.7% between the vertical lines. Under inde-\
pendent interviewing, Mmis garbled both at the source and destination occupations\
90\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 92 of 269]\
and hence is observed as G0MmG. Pre- and post-multiplying the latter by the respec-\
tive inverses (G0)1,G1recovers (G0)1G0MmGG1=Mm. Applying this procedure\
to the 1984/85 samples yields the long-dashed line with hollow triangular markers.\
The result is a drop in the occupational mobility rate to about 1.6%.\
Next consider the 1986/88 samples. Here independent interviewing is only\
applied to employer/activity changers. Therefore, the observed overall occupa-\
tional mobility rate for these samples is based on MD,86/87\
s +MI,86/87\
m . The matrix\
MD,86/87\
s does not contribute to any occupational transitions while matrix MI,86/87\
m\
does. This difference implies a much lower observed aggregate mobility rate. The\
latter is depicted by the short-dashed line with \uc0\u64257 lled circular markers in Figure 18\
and averages 2.6%. Correcting the occupational \uc0\u64258 ows of the 1986-88 samples us-\
ing \'88MD,86/87\
s + (\'88G0)1\'88MI,86/87\
m\'88G1yields the series depicted by the long-dashed line\
with solid triangular markers. The result is a drop in the occupational mobility rate\
to about 1.7%, which is very close to the G-corrected occupational mobility rate from\
the 1984/85 samples. Indeed, in Figure 18 the blue (independent-interviewing) and\
red (dependent-interviewing) long-dashed lines of the G-corrected measures nearly\
coincide between the two vertical lines.44\
The fact that we obtain very similar corrected mobility rates after using the same\
underlying G-correction matrix in two different survey designs, suggests that our\
methodology captures the extent of coding error quite well. Our methodology also\
seems to work well in other dimensions. We \uc0\u64257 nd that the occupational mobility\
rates in the years before 1986 are adjusted downwards to numbers that are very\
similar to the numbers obtain during the 1986s-1987s window. For example, the\
G-corrected occupational mobility in 1985 is 1.63%, while during the 1986s-1987s\
window we obtain 1.62%. For the years after the 1986s-1987s window, we \uc0\u64257 nd\
that the G-corrected occupational mobility rate is within 0.02% of the one obtained\
during this window. Further, Figure 18 shows that any changes in the level of the\
G-corrected occupational mobility rate series appear to track changes in the uncor-\
rected series. This also suggests that our correction method does not seem to intro-\
duce additional randomness into the occupational mobility process.\
We apply our G-correction method to those who changed employers with an in-\
44Note that in the estimation of Gwe used \'88MI,86/87\
m , but we did not impose the additional restriction\
on(\'88G0)1\'88MI,86/87\
m\'88G1to equal (\'88G0)1\'88MI,85\'88G1.\
91\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 93 of 269]\
tervening spell of unemployment or non-employment. We then compute the host\
of statistics shown in the main text and Supplementary Appendix B. We show that\
occupational miscoding increases observed gross mobility. In the raw data we com-\
pute an occupational mobility rate at re-employment of 53.1% based on the 2000\
SOC. After applying our G-correction, we obtain an occupational mobility rate at re-\
employment of 44.4%. We also \uc0\u64257 nd that coding errors makes occupational mobility\
appear less responsive to unemployment duration. Since in short unemployment\
spells true occupational staying is more common, miscoding creates relatively more\
spurious mobility and therefore our method corrects more the short spells, leading\
to a steeper relationship between occupational mobility and unemployment dura-\
tion (see Table 1 and Figure 1 in Supplementary Appendix B). Miscoding also re-\
duces the degree of procyclicality of gross mobility. This arises as coding errors will\
generate more spurious mobility in times were there are more true stayers (see Table\
6 and Figure 11 in Supplementary Appendix B).\
In contrast, we \uc0\u64257 nd that miscoding reduces the contribution of net occupational\
mobility (see also Kambourov and Manovskii, 2013). The average net mobility rate\
(as de\uc0\u64257 ned in the main text) increases from 3.6% (uncorrected) to 4.2% (corrected),\
a nearly 15% increase. To understand why this arises, consider the true net mobility\
transition \uc0\u64258 ow matrix, Mnet, and note that this matrix does not have mass on its\
diagonal. Under independent interviewing coding errors imply that the true net\
mobility matrix would be observed as MI\
net=G0MnetG, which could have mass\
on the diagonal and hence biasing downwards net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows. That is, coding\
errors mistakenly convert some true mobility \uc0\u64258 ows into occupational stays, while\
miscoding for stayers is completely symmetric with respect to origin and destination\
occupations, and therefore should not give rise to spurious net mobility.\
A.2.3 The differential impact of coding error on employer/activity\
stayers and movers\
Note that our G-corrected occupational mobility rate for those workers who changed\
employers through a spell of unemployment is 16.4% lower than the raw one (44.4%\
vs 53.1%, 2000 SOC). This adjustment is much smaller in relative terms than the one\
suggested by Kambourov and Manovskii (2008). They argue that on average around\
92\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 94 of 269]\
50% of allyear-to-year observed occupational mobility in the raw PSID data is due\
to coding error. Indeed when constructing the year-to-year occupational mobility\
rate for our pooled sample of employer/activity stayers and movers in the SIPP , we\
\uc0\u64257 nd that only 39.3% of observed occupational changes are genuine (an uncorrected\
rate of 26.7% vs a G-corrected rate of 10.5%).\
These \uc0\u64257 ndings are not mutually inconsistent. The key to this difference is that\
therelative importance of coding error varies greatly with the true propensity of an\
occupational change among employer stayers and among employer changers. True\
occupational changes are more likely to be accompanied by changes in employers\
(for examples of this argument see Hill, 1994, Moscarini and Thomsson, 2007, and\
Kambourov and Manovskii, 2009) and, vice versa, employer changes are more likely\
to be accompanied by occupational changes. As such, the relative adjustment that\
Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) \uc0\u64257 nd does not automatically carry over to differ-\
ent subsets of workers or \uc0\u64258 ows measured at a different frequency.\
As an example, consider an individual who is observed moving from \'93man-\
agers\'94 to \'93laborers\'94. Suppose \'93managers\'94 was this individual\'92s true source occu-\
pation, but the observed destination occupation was the result of coding error. If this\
individual is a true occupational stayer, the observed transition will wrongly tell us\
that the individual stopped being a manager and will generate a false occupational\
move. Instead, if this individual is a true occupational mover, the observed transi-\
tion, although wrongly coded, will still capture the fact that the individual stopped\
being a manager and hence will capture a true occupational move. Given that\
true occupational changes are more likely to occur along side employer changes,\
there will be more workers among employer changers (relative to employer stay-\
ers) whose categorization as an observed occupational mover will not change after\
using the G-correction. This implies that the measured occupational mobility rate\
of employer changers would have a relative smaller adjustment than the measured\
occupational mobility rate of employer stayers. Kambourov and Manovskii (2008)\
pooled together employer changers and stayers. Since the latter group represent\
the vast majority of workers in their sample (as well as in our sample), the relative\
adjustment proposed by these authors is naturally much larger.\
Consider the following iterative back-of-the-envelope approximation to under-\
stand why there must be a larger proportion of true occupational movers among\
93\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 95 of 269]\
those who changed employers than among those who did not change employers.\
Recall that the G-correction method implies that true occupational stayers will be\
coded as movers in about 20% of the times. This happens irrespectively of whether\
the worker changed employers or not. If we were to suppose that all of the un-\
employed who regain employment were true occupational stayers, the difference\
between their observed mobility rate (53%) and coding error (20%) would imme-\
diately imply that among the unemployed there must be true occupational movers\
and these true movers would represent at least 33% of the unemployed. This re-\
sult then shrinks the population of occupational stayers (the \'93population at risk\'94)\
among the unemployed to at most 67%, which (proceeding iteratively) implies the\
maximum extent of spurious \uc0\u64258 ows produced under the same miscoding propensity\
is reduced to 0.267%. In turn, the latter implies an updated lower bound on the\
percentage of true occupational movers among the unemployed of 39.6%. Proceed-\
ing iteratively, one arrives to a lower bound on the percentage of true occupational\
movers among the unemployed of 41.25%, which is close to the gross mobility we\
obtained after applying the G-correction. A similar procedure but applied to em-\
ployer stayers shows a much lower \'91true\'92 mobility rate among this group.\
Table 20: Inferred Coding Error Probabilities and Observed vs. Underlying Occu-\
pational Mobility\
Classi\uc0\u64257 cation P(\'98MjS)P(\'98MjU) P(MjU)P(MjU)\
P(\'98MjU)1P(\'98o6=ojU)\
2000 SOC (22 cat) 0.178 0.531 0.444 -0.164 0.095\
1990 SOC (13 cat) 0.197 0.507 0.401 -0.209 0.105\
1990 SOC (6 cat) 0.148 0.402 0.317 -0.213 0.077\
NR/R Cognitive, NR/R Manual (4 cat) 0.110 0.332 0.263 -0.208 0.058\
Cognitve, R Manual / NR Manual (3 cat) 0.083 0.273 0.218 -0.199 0.043\
Major industry groups (15 cat) 0.101 0.523 0.477 -0.088 0.055\
Sample: unemployed between 1983-2013, in 1984-2008 SIPP panels, subject to conditions explained in data construction appendix (most importantly: unimputed\
occupations (resp. industries), with restrictions to avoid right and left censoring issues.) P(\'98MjS): probability that the wrong code is assigned to a true stayer;\
P(\'98o6=ojU): probability that the wrong code is assigned to an unemployed worker; P(\'98M): observed occupational mobility among the unemployed; P(M): inferred\
underlying true mobility (proportion of unemployed). NR/R refers to routine vs. non-routine. Further details on the classi\uc0\u64257 cations are explained in the data construction\
appendix.\
Table 20 shows that the differential impact of coding error on employer changers\
and stayers is present when considering several alternative occupational classi\uc0\u64257 ca-\
tions as well as mobility across industries. In all these cases we use wave-to-wave\
mobility rates. The \uc0\u64257 rst column, P(\'98MjS), presents the probability that a true em-\
ployer/activity stayer in the 1985 sample is assigned the wrong occupational code\
94\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 96 of 269]\
and hence is observed as an occupational mover \'98M. This probability is 17.8% when\
using the 2000 SOC. This implies that under independent interviewing we will ob-\
serve an occupational mobility rate of 17.8% among the employer/activity stayers.\
This rate increases slightly when using the 1990 SOC, 19.7%, and remains high even\
when we aggregate occupations into six categories, 14.8%.45Aggregating occupa-\
tions into four tasked based categories (routine vs. non-routine and manual vs.\
cognitive) only brings down the observed mobility rate of true occupational stayers\
to 11%. As many other studies, we also \uc0\u64257 nd the probability that a true stayer is\
observed as a mover is lower when considering industries instead of occupations.\
The second and third columns show the observed, P(\'98MjU), and G-corrected,\
P(MjU), occupational mobility rate of those workers who changed employers through\
unemployment. These are obtained using the probability that an unemployed worker\
in the 1984-2008 SIPP panels is assigned the wrong occupational code at re-employment,\
P(\'98o6=ojU). We observe that across all classi\uc0\u64257 cations the (relative) difference be-\
tween the observed and the G-corrected occupational mobility rates of the unem-\
ployed, P(\'98MjU)P(MjU), is about half the size of P(\'98MjS). The fourth column\
shows this difference in relative terms. It is clear that across all classi\uc0\u64257 cations the\
same coding error generates a much larger difference (in absolute and relative terms)\
between the observed and G-corrected occupational mobility rates of employer stay-\
ers than among employer changers.\
A.3 Measuring coding error in the PSID\
We now broaden the above analysis and use probabilistic models based on the PSID\
(as in Kambourov and Manovskii, 2008) to assess the impact of coding errors on the\
probability of an occupational change. The advantage of the G-correction method is\
that it captures all sources of error in assigning occupation codes. It delivers an iden-\
ti\uc0\u64257 cation procedure that is not subject to the issue highlighted in Corollary A.1 and\
that recovers the extent to which coding errors arise at the level of each occupation.\
Further, the SIPP provides a large sample size in which we can apply our correction\
45The six groups are: (1) managers/professional speciality; (2) tech support/admin support/sales;\
(3) services; (4) farm/forest/\uc0\u64257 sheries; (5) precision production/craft/repair; and (6) operators, fab-\
ricators and laborers. These correspond to the summary occupational group of the 1990 SOC.\
95\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 97 of 269]\
method. The advantage of the PSID is that retrospective coding affected directly\
the way occupational transitions among employer changers were measured. We\
exploit this feature and assess the impact of coding error on employer movers and\
employer stayers separately and compare the results with the ones obtained from\
the SIPP using our G-correction method. We \uc0\u64257 nd a very consistent picture across the\
two data sets.\
To assess the impact of retrospective coding in reducing coding errors, we use the\
PSID retrospective occupation-industry supplementary data \uc0\u64257 les, which contain the\
re-coding the PSID staff performed on the occupational mobility records obtained\
during the 1968-1980 period. Since the 1981-1997 records were not re-coded and col-\
lected under independent interviewing, the earlier period can be used to construct\
\'93clean\'94 occupational mobility rates and to analyse the effect of measurement error\
at the coding stage. In constructing our sample we closely follow Kambourov and\
Manovskii (2008, 2009). The details of this sample are described in the Supplemen-\
tary Appendix B.7.\
A.3.1 Gross occupational mobility rates\
As in Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) we de\uc0\u64257 ne the overall occupational mobility\
rate as the fraction of employed workers whose occupational code differs between\
years tand t+1 divided by the number of workers who were employed in year t. As\
these authors we also consider those workers who were employed at the time of the\
interview in year t1, unemployed in tand employed at the time of the interview\
in year t+1. Further, we de\uc0\u64257 ne the within-employer occupational mobility rate as the\
fraction of workers employed who did not change employers but exhibit a different\
occupational code between years tand t+1, divided by the number of employed\
workers who did not change employers between years tand t+1. Similarly, we\
de\uc0\u64257 ne the across-employer occupational mobility rate be the fraction of employed\
workers who\'92s occupational code differs between years tand t+1 and reported an\
employer change between these years, divided by the number of employed workers\
in year twho have reported an employer change between years tand t+1. To\
identify employer changes we follow the procedure detailed in Kambourov and\
Manovskii (2009), Appendix A1.\
96\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 98 of 269]\
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 199500.050.10.150.20.250.30.350.40.450.5Occupational mobility rateOverall mobility\
1-digit\
2-digit\
3-digit\
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 199500.050.10.150.20.250.30.350.40.450.5Occupational mobility rateWithin-employer mobility\
1-digit\
2-digit\
3-digitFigure 19: Overall and within-employer occupational mobility rates\
The left panel of Figure 19 depicts the yearly overall occupational mobility rate\
at a one-, two- and three-digit level of aggregation, using the 1970 SOC. When ret-\
rospective re-coding was used, the overall occupational mobility rate experienced a\
large downward shift, ranging between 10 to 25 percentage points, depending on\
the level of aggregation of the occupational codes. These drops suggest that only\
between 38% to 45% of all occupational moves are genuine. This is very similar to\
the conclusion reached by Kambourov and Manovskii (2008).\
The right panel of Figure 19 shows that the within-employer occupational mobil-\
ity rates experienced even stronger drops than the overall ones under retrospective\
coding. In contrast, the left panel of Figure 20 shows that the impact of coding error\
in the across-employer occupational mobility rates is much more moderate and hardly\
visible when aggregating occupations at a one-digit level. These results then sug-\
gest that the impact of coding error on the overall mobility rates mainly arises from\
those workers who did not change employers, where employer stayers account on\
average for 87.1% of all employed workers in a given year, while those who changed\
employers account for the remainder 12.9%. We \uc0\u64257 nd a similar conclusion based on\
the SIPP data.\
Next consider the effects of coding error on the occupational mobility rate of only\
those workers who changed employers through a spell of non-employment (ENE).\
To construct the ENE occupational mobility rate we consider (i) those workers who\
were employed at the interview date in year t1, non-employed at the interview\
date in year tand once again employed at the interview date in year t+1; and\
97\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 99 of 269]\
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 199500.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Occupational mobility rateAcross-employer mobility\
1-digit\
2-digit\
3-digit\
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 199500.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8Occupational mobility rateENE mobility\
1-digit\
2-digit\
3-digitFigure 20: Across-employer occupational mobility rates\
(ii) those workers employed at the interview dates in years tand t+1, but who\
declared that they experienced an involuntary employer change between these two\
interviews. An involuntary change is de\uc0\u64257 ned as those cases were the worker de-\
clared a job separation due to \'93business or plant closing\'94, due to \'93being laid off or\
were \uc0\u64257 red\'94 or their \'93temporary job ended\'94 (see Supplementary Appendix B.7 for\
details). We divide these \uc0\u64258 ows by the number of workers who changed employ-\
ers through a spell of non-employment during the corresponding years. The right\
panel of Figure 20 shows that coder error once again seems to have a small effect on\
the occupational mobility rates of these workers.\
A.3.2 Probabilistic models\
The visual impressions given by the above \uc0\u64257 gures on the effects of coding error\
are con\uc0\u64257 rmed when estimating the effects of retrospective coding using a probit or\
a linear probability model. In these regressions the dependent variable takes the\
value of one if the worker changed occupation and zero otherwise. We include the\
indicator variable \'93break\'94 which takes the value of one during the years in which\
the PSID used retrospective coding. In addition we control for age, education, full\
or part-time work, occupation of origin, region of residence, aggregate and regional\
unemployment rates, a quadratic time trend and number of children.46\
46As in Kambourov and Manovskii (2008), the education indicator variable takes the value of one\
when the worker has more than 12 years of education and zero otherwise. This is to avoid small\
sample problems if we were to divide educational attainment in more categories. The regional un-\
employment rates are computed using US states unemployment rates.\
98\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 100 of 269]\
Table 21 shows the marginal effects for the probit regressions.47It shows that\
retrospective coding had a large and signi\uc0\u64257 cant effect on reducing the probability\
of changing occupations when all workers were included in the sample. Further-\
more, the values of the marginal effects of the \'93break\'94 indicator are very close to the\
amount by which the overall occupational mobility series shifted when retrospec-\
tive coding was used, as depicted in Figure 19.\
Table 21: The effect of measurement error on the PSID (probit marginal effects)\
All workers Across employer ENE\
1-digit 2-digits 3-digits 1-digit 2-digits 3-digits 1-digit 2-digits 3-digits\
Unemp rate -0.002 -0.004 0.001 -0.026-0.025-0.021-0.058-0.057-0.032\
Reg unemp rate -0.003 -0.003 -0.003 0.0150.0140.0130.0460.0390.022\
Age -0.008-0.008-0.011-0.007 -0.008 -0.007 -0.025-0.029-0.022\
Age squared 0.6 e-40.6 e-40.9 e-40.4 e-4 0.3 e-4 0.2 e-4 0.26 e-4 0.29 e-40.19 e-3\
Education 0.0150.0160.007 0.0260.0260.0300.024 0.034 0.069\
Break -0.133-0.165-0.260-0.040 -0.069-0.065-0.029 -0.077 -0.065\
Full-time 0.0340.017 -0.001 -0.019 -0.055 -0.1010.051 0.043 -0.065\
N Obs 39,047 39,047 38,841 4,962 4,935 4,656 1,792 1,782 1,576\
R20.010 0.119 0.184 0.040 0.067 0.134 0.064 0.081 0.175\
Levels of signi\uc0\u64257 cance:p<0.1,p<0.05,p<0.01\
Our estimates also show that the effect of retrospective coding is much more\
moderate when we condition the sample on workers who changed employers and\
when we consider the ENE sample.48\
A.3.3 A comparison of coding errors across the PSID and SIPP\
The point estimates obtained in Table 21 suggest that the probability of an occupa-\
tional change for those who changed employers and for those who changed em-\
ployer through non-employment spells, should be lowered on average by 3 per-\
centage points at a one-digit level, 8 percentage points at a two-digit level and 7\
percentage points at a three-digit level to capture the effect of coding error. To com-\
pare these estimates to the ones obtained from the SIPP , \uc0\u64257 rst note that retrospective\
coding is done using the same descriptions of the \'93kind of work\'94 individuals gave\
47These estimates are obtained using the personal weights provided by each survey, but similar\
results are obtained when using the unweighted data. We also obtained very similar results when\
using the linear probability model on weighted and unweighted data and when using robust stan-\
dard errors and clustering standard errors at a yearly level.\
48We do not include the within-employer occupational mobility in Table 21 because, as suggested\
by the graphical analysis, the results are very similar to the ones obtained with the full sample.\
99\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 101 of 269]\
in past interviews and hence captures coding errors introduced at the coding stage\
(see Sullivan, 2010). In addition to this coder error, our G-correction method also\
takes into account that the source of code disagreement can originate in different\
descriptions of the same work (respondent error). Hence we would expect a higher\
correction when using the G-correction than when using retrospective coding. Tak-\
ing this feature into account and noting that coder error is expected to be the most\
important source error (see Mathiowetz, 1992), the PSID estimates compare very\
well with the adjustments implied by the G-correction method.\
In particular, when aggregating occupations into major categories (2000 SOC or\
1990 SOC) and using the G-correction, the corrected average occupational mobil-\
ity rate for the non-employed was approximately 11 percentage points lower than\
the one obtained using the raw SIPP data. Noting that the occupational aggrega-\
tions used in the SIPP and the two-digit aggregation used in the PSID lead to very\
similar ENE occupational mobility rates, the 11 percentage point adjustment ob-\
tained from the SIPP is thus close to the 8 percentage points suggested by Table\
21.49The difference between the adjustments obtained from the SIPP and the PSID\
(3 percentage points) then provides a rough estimate of the impact of the respon-\
dent error. This estimate then implies that the importance of coder error is about 2.6\
times larger than the importance of the respondent error. This is remarkably consis-\
tent with Mathiowetz (1992), who shows that the importance of coder error is two\
times larger than the importance of the respondent error when aggregating codes at\
a one-digit level and \uc0\u64257 ve times larger than the importance of the respondent error\
when aggregating codes at a three-digit level.\
Furthermore, both the SIPP and the PSID data sets strongly suggest that the per-\
centage reduction of occupational mobility due to coding error varies substantially\
between employer stayers and employer movers. In the case of employer stayers,\
a large percentage of transitions are implied to be spurious. In the PSID we \uc0\u64257 nd\
that at a two-digit level 45% of yearly transitions are spurious, while in the SIPP\
we \uc0\u64257 nd that 40% of the yearly transitions of employer stayers are spurious. In the\
case of employer movers, occupational mobility is reduced by about 10 percentage\
49For the 1985-1995 period, during which the PSID and SIPP overlap, the average \'93year-to-year\'94\
occupational mobility rate of the non-employed in the PSID and the SIPP was both around 53.1%\
and 47.6% when using the major occupational categories of the 1990 SOC.\
100\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 102 of 269]\
points, but high occupational mobility remains (around 40% comparing before and\
after an employer changers), after applying retrospective coding or after using the\
G-correction. As discussed earlier, this difference arises as among employer stayers\
the proportion of true occupational stayers is high and coding errors translate into a\
large amount of spurious mobility. Among those who changed employers through\
non-employment there is a much smaller proportion of true occupational stayers\
and hence the \'93population at risk\'94 to be assigned a spurious occupational change is\
smaller.50\
A.4 Discussion of assumptions A1and A2\
We now turn to discuss the two assumptions that appear the most restrictive in our\
analysis. As mentioned earlier, assumption A3 is veri\uc0\u64257 ed in our data.\
A.4.1 Assumption A1\
This assumption requires that the realization of an occupational code does not de-\
pend on workers\'92 labor market histories, demographic characteristics or the time it\
occurred in our sample. Therefore it implies that errors in the individuals\'92 verbatim\
responses are fully captured by the nature of their job and hence only depend on\
their true occupation. It also implies that Gis time-invariant. Since we use these\
implications extensively in the implementation of our correction method, we now\
investigate them further to help us evaluate the strength of A1. Our main conclusion\
is that our Gcorrection method appears to pick up heterogeneity in miscoding across\
occupations that is robust to estimations on subsamples of the population. Likewise,\
we \uc0\u64257 nd evidence that even though the Gmatrix was estimated using 1985-1986 data,\
it captures well miscoding observed in recent years.\
A.4.1.1 Worker heterogeneity\
We investigate two aspects of worker heterogeneity that could deliver very different\
estimates of G. We \uc0\u64257 rst consider whether the accuracy of the answer to the occupa-\
50vom Lehm et al. (2021) analyses the impact of coding errors on occupational mobility in the CPS\
when pooling together movers and stayers and \uc0\u64257 nd similar results to the ones we derive in the SIPP\
for the same pooled sample.\
101\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 103 of 269]\
tion question is affected by differences in workers\'92 education attainment. A concern\
would be that more educated workers can better explain the type of job they are per-\
forming and hence coding errors would be less severe among these workers than in\
those with lower education. We then consider whether the accuracy of the occu-\
pation information is affected by a worker\'92s interview status. In the SIPP either\
the worker reports his/her occupation him/herself to the interviewer (self-report)\
or another person of the same household reports his/her occupation (proxy). One\
would be concern that proxies answers are more prone to coding error.\
Our analysis relies on re-estimating Gusing the 1985-1986 sample but on sub-\
samples based on different educational attainment categories and interview status.\
As discussed above, the estimation process recovers a transition matrix of purely\
spurious mobility, \'88TI\
s, (as shown in Table 3 for the 1990 SOC). We can then compare\
the estimated matrix of each subsample with the one computed in our main analy-\
sis. This comparison allows us to gauge whether the aforementioned characteristics\
lead to different miscoding even when conditioning on occupation.\
Education differences To study the effect of education differences, we divide the\
1985-1986 sample into two groups: (i) high skilled workers which captures all those\
individuals with at least some college and (ii) low skilled workers which capture\
all those individuals with at most a high school degree. About one-third of the\
sample covers high skilled group. Note that occupations and education are highly\
correlated in the data. For example, very few non-college-educated workers can be\
found in architecture and engineering occupations, while very few college-educated\
workers can be found in production and some service occupations. Hence, part of\
the impact of education would already be captured by conditioning on occupations.\
However, the aim of this exercise is to evaluate the impact of the within-occupation\
variation in education on the level of miscoding.\
Each panels (a)-(d) of Figure 30b depicts a scatter plot in which on the y-axis are\
the elements of the transition matrix \'88TI\
sestimated for either the high skilled subsam-\
ple (panels (a)-(b)) or the low skilled subsample (panels (c)-(d)) and on the x-axis are\
the elements of \'88TI\
sestimated in our main analysis. We use the major occupations cat-\
egories of the 2000 SOC and depict the same numbering of occupations as in Table\
19 for the diagonal elements. Panels (a) and (c) show all the elements of the corre-\
102\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 104 of 269]\
131911151753\
31492721\
3747\
3941432923\
513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
 Of subset of Workers\
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
45-degree line(a) High skilled - All cells\
1319 111517 53\
31492721\
3747\
3941\
432923\
51333525.6 .7 .8 .9 1Diagonal Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Subset of Workers \
 \
.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95\
Diagonal Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Regression 45-degree line\
Diag. Probabilities (b) High skilled - Diagonal\
13\
191115\
1753314927\
213739\
4143\
29\
23513335\
250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
 Of subset of Workers\
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
45-degree line\
(c) Low skilled - All cells\
13\
191115\
175331\
4927\
213739\
4143\
29\
23513335\
25.5 .6 .7 .8 .9 1Diagonal Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Subset of Workers \
 \
.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95\
Diagonal Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Regression 45-degree line\
Diag. Probabilities (d) Low skilled - Diagonal\
13191115175331492721374739\
41432923513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
 Of subset of Workers\
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
45-degree line\
(e) Dominant education - All cells\
1319111517\
5331\
49\
2721374739\
41432923\
51333525.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95Diagonal Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Subset of Workers \
 \
.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95\
Diagonal Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Regression 45-degree line\
Diag. Probabilities (f) Dominant education - Diagonal\
Figure 21: Comparing the estimated spurious transition matrices by education\
103\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 105 of 269]\
sponding matrices, while panels (b) and (d) focus only on the diagonal elements. It\
is in the latter where the Gmatrix captures the heterogeneity in the probability of\
being coded correctly. Although the correction method formally involves applying\
the inverse of G, there is an intuitive relation between the diagonal elements and the\
probability of being miscoded. The higher a diagonal element, the lower miscoding\
tends to be. Further note that as most of the mass in these transitions matrices lies\
on the diagonal elements they will be observed on the top right of the graph, while\
the off-diagonal elements will be closer to the origin. For the former we also show\
circles around them representing the relative size of the occupations.\
If educational differences across workers created very different coding errors, we\
would observe large deviations from the 45-degree line. The latter would suggest\
important differences between the coding errors obtained in our main analysis and\
the ones obtained when taking into account differences in workers\'92 education. In-\
stead, panels (a)-(d) shows that this is not the case. The correlation of coding errors\
is very close to one. Using OLS to \uc0\u64257 t a regression line among the observations, we\
observe that the regression line lies nearly on top of the 45-degree line.\
Panels (e)-(f) of Figure 30b present a different approach to evaluate the effect\
of education differences on coding errors. In this case we only consider, for each\
occupation, the observations of those workers with the most dominant education\
(more than 50%) in that occupation. That is, we counterfactually impose the coding\
error attributed to the dominant education group on all workers in such an occupa-\
tion. As before, if educational differences have meaningful effects on coding errors,\
controlling for occupations, then we would observe the regression line diverge sig-\
ni\uc0\u64257 cantly from the 45-degree line. Instead, we once again observe that these lie very\
close to each other, with only a slight deviation due to the diagonal elements (see\
also Table 22 below).\
Interview status differences To investigate the impact of differences in the in-\
terview status of a worker on miscoding, we divide the 1985-1986 sample into those\
who were interviewed in person (self-interviewed) in two consecutive waves and\
those who had their information given by a proxy (proxy interview) at least in one\
of the waves. This divides the sample roughly in half: 55% were interviewed in\
person and 45% involve a proxy interview.\
104\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 106 of 269]\
1319111517533149272137\
473941432923513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
 Of subset of Workers\
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
45-degree line(a) Self-interview - All cells\
13\
191115 175331\
4927\
2137\
47394143292351\
333525.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95Diagonal Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Subset of Workers \
 \
.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95\
Diagonal Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Regression 45-degree line\
Diag. Probabilities (b) Self-interview - Diagonal\
1319111517533149\
2721\
374739414329235133\
35250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
 Of subset of Workers\
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
45-degree line\
(c) Proxy-interviewed - All cells\
131911\
151753\
3149\
2721\
374739\
41\
4329\
235133\
3525.6 .7 .8 .9 1Diagonal Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Subset of Workers \
 \
.7 .75 .8 .85 .9 .95\
Diagonal Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Regression 45-degree line\
Diag. Probabilities (d) Proxy-interview - Diagonal\
Figure 22: Comparing the estimated spurious transition matrices by interview status\
Figure 22 presents the same scatter plot exercises as describe above, but this time\
using the interview status instead of education attainment. We can observe a very\
high correlation between the elements of the transition matrix \'88TI\
sfor each of these\
subsamples and of the transition matrix \'88TI\
sestimated in our main analysis. In this\
case the regression line is also nearly on top of the 45-degree line, with a very slight\
deviation at the diagonal elements. This deviation implies that for those interviewed\
in person the slope is a little steeper than one, while it is a little lower than one for\
those interviewed by proxy. This captures that the self-interviewed appear slightly\
more accurate, with slightly less spurious mobility, than the proxy interviewed.\
Nevertheless, in both cases we obtained a very similar conclusion. Occupations\
105\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 107 of 269]\
like managers, business and \uc0\u64257 nancial operators, computer and mathematical occu-\
pations and physical scientists are more prone to miscoding; while occupations like\
education, training and library occupations, food services and protective services\
are less prone to miscoding.\
One could further subdivide the analysis using the interaction between educa-\
tion and interview status categories to gain a further insight. However, the above\
analysis suggests that we would \uc0\u64257 nd once again that subdividing the sample into\
these categories would not meaningfully change our estimated \'88TI\
sand hence Gma-\
trix.\
Implications for measured occupational mobility Table 22 summarises the\
above results, showing that the overall level of occupational staying among true\
stayers estimated across all subsamples is very similar to the one estimated in our\
main analysis. The correlations when using all elements of the matrices are nearly\
one. As mentioned above these correlations drop but still remain very high when\
only considering the diagonal elements. That is, the Gmatrix capture miscoding\
differences across occupation that is present (i) whether the individual is the one\
being interviewed or a proxy provides his/her information and (ii) across education\
categories.51\
Table 22: Observed Occupation Staying of True Stayers, Correlations across \'88TI\
sEsti-\
mates.\
level corr. w/ baseline level corr. w/ baseline\
occ stay all diag occ. stay all diag\
Baseline 0.822 1.000 1.000 Education\
By interview status Dominant educ. 0.832 1.000 0.982\
Self-interviewed 0.838 1.000 0.979 High skilled 0.799 0.998 0.900\
Proxy interview 0.799 0.999 0.953 Low skilled 0.828 0.999 0.867\
Next we apply the implied Gobtained for each of the above subgroup of work-\
51Interestingly, high skilled workers are a bit more likely to be miscoded than low skilled work-\
ers. This could arise as the occupation typically performed by the high skilled are more specialized\
than those performed by the low skilled, making miscoding more likely in the former. Indeed the\
increased miscoding re\uc0\u64258 ects mostly the occupations that typically performed by the high skilled (11\
to 29 in the 2000 SOC). These are associated with a 78.1% of occupational stayers in the estimated \'88TI\
s,\
while the proportion of occupational staying in the occupations typically performed by low skilled\
workers (31 to 53 in the 2000 SOC) is 83.7%. If we were only to consider the high skilled in all oc-\
cupations we \uc0\u64257 nd 79.9% of occupational staying, while if we only consider the low skilled in all\
occupations we obtain 82.8% of occupational staying.\
106\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 108 of 269]\
ers to correct the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le documented in Section 2.2 of the main\
text. Figure 23a considers the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les when using the Gmatrices\
obtained from high skilled and low skilled workers. Figure 23b considers the same\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le but this time using the Gmatrices obtained from the self\
and proxy interviewed. In both graphs we depict the uncorrected mobility duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le (without any smoothing), and the one corrected with our baseline G.\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Occupational Mobility of Unemployed\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Duration unemployment spell\
Baseline Correction Uncorrected Mobility\
High School only College Only\
Only dominant ed.level\
(a) Educational attainment\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Occupational Mobility of Unemployed\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Duration unemployment spell\
Baseline Correction Uncorrected Mobility\
Self-interviewed Interviewed by Proxy (b) Interview status\
Figure 23: Corrected Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le from Gestimated on subsamples\
We can observe that when using the Gmatrices from the education attainment\
subsamples the implied mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les are very similar to the obtained\
in our main analysis. When we use high skilled sample to measure miscoding in\
all occupations, including those that have very few college workers in them, the\
associated pro\uc0\u64257 le is only by 1-1.5 percentage point different from the baseline one.\
We also obtain a very similar conclusion when using the low skilled sample across\
all occupations. The mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le corrected by using only information\
on those with the dominant education in a given occupation also track the original\
mobility duration pro\uc0\u64257 le closely. Moreover, when using the Gmatrices implied by\
the self-interviewed or proxy subsamples, we once again obtain mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 les that hardly differ from the one obtained in our main analysis. This evidence\
thus suggests that differences in education attainment or interview status (or their\
interaction) do not affect the conclusion obtained from our main correction analy-\
sis: occupational mobility is high, a little over 40%, and increases moderately with\
unemployment duration.\
107\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 109 of 269]\
A.4.1.2 Time invariance of G\
As previously discussed we estimate the Gcorrection matrix using the 1985-1986\
SIPP panels and then apply it to occupational mobility data up to 2014. An impor-\
tant concern that arises from this application is whether the estimated coding errors\
remain relevant in the later years of our sample as implied by assumption A1. To\
directly evaluate whether this is the case we would need to re-apply our correction\
method at a later date and compare the more recent coding error correction ma-\
trix to our baseline one. To perform this exercise we will require a US data set that\
switched from dependent to independent interviewing with respect to occupations\
in the 2000s. However, we are not aware of any data set in which this re-design\
took place. Due to this barrier we instead take a different approach. We consider a\
group of workers who are likely occupation stayers, but coded independently such\
that some of them would be observed as occupational movers. We then evaluate\
the extent to which our Gmatrix can predict these workers\'92 observed occupational\
mobility, particularly in more recent years. A high predictive power would suggest\
that coding errors estimated using data from 1985-1986 remain relevant throughout\
our sample.\
Motivated by Fujita and Moscarini (2017) we use temporary laid-off workers\
to approximate this group of occupational stayers. These authors\'92 empirical work\
suggests that workers in temporary layoff have a very low chance of an occupation\
switch once recalled by their previous employers. Therefore it is not unreasonable\
to assume that this set of workers are largely made up of true occupation stayers and\
can provide a good approximation to the latter group. Instead of using the SIPP\
to measure temporary layoffs (as Fujita and Moscarini, 2017), however, we use the\
Current Population Survey (CPS). The main reason for this choice is that dependent\
interviewing in the CPS only applies when a person is employed both in the cur-\
rent month and the month before (see e.g. the CPS interviewing manual 2015). This\
implies that workers who are unemployed on temporary layoff will have their occu-\
pations coded independently. In contrast, as interviews in the SIPP are conducted\
every four months, one cannot guarantee that temporary layoffs with spells of un-\
employment of at most 4 months will have their occupations independently coded\
at re-employment.\
108\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 110 of 269]\
(Cell-by-Cell) Correlation across Transition Matrices\
All, <13 weeks All 3-dgt Industry Stayers\
CPS years All cells Diagonal All cells Diagonal\
1994-2021 0.991 0.844 0.993 0.805\
1994-2004 0.986 0.816 0.990 0.823\
2004-2014 0.989 0.790 0.992 0.742\
2014-2021 0.989 0.812 0.990 0.710\
Table 23: Correlations Observed Transition Matrix of Temporary Layoffs with Spu-\
rious Transitions (from G)\
Therefore, if the vast majority of temporary layoffs are independently-coded true\
occupation stayers and theGcoding errors persist over time, we would observe\
a positive correlation between the elements of the transition matrix \'88TI\
sestimated\
in our main analysis and the elements of the observed transition matrix of those\
workers returning to work out of a temporary layoff, even if we consider tempo-\
rary layoffs three decades later. Table 23 presents the results of such an exercise\
using several time periods post the CPS 1994-redesign. The \uc0\u64257 rst two columns re-\
fer to all those workers who were in temporary layoff for less than 13 weeks before\
re-employment; while the second two columns refers to the subset of temporary\
layoffs with less than 13 weeks in unemployment what were also observed as in-\
dustry stayers at re-employment when considering a 3-digit industry aggregation.\
Although the latter group reduces the sample size, it is more likely to contain true\
occupational stayers. This occurs as occupation and industry mobility tends to go\
hand in hand. We return to this point below.52\
Across both samples of temporary layoffs Table 23 shows the correlation between\
their observed occupational transition matrix and \'88TI\
s, obtained from the 1985-1986\
SIPP data, when using the 2000 SOC. One can immediately see the very high cor-\
relations in the observed occupational mobility patterns among those in temporary\
layoff and the one implied by the Gmatrix. Moreover, the value of the correlation is\
nearly unchanged over time even when focusing on the years 2014-2021, the period\
after our SIPP analysis ended. In particular, the correlations are nearly one when\
taking all elements of the matrices (or, very similar but not shown here, all cells\
52The post-1994 sample size is about 45,000 for all temporary layoffs with duration less than 13\
weeks and about 30,000 for temporary layoffs who are industry stayers. The decadal samples (1994-\
2004, 2004-2014, 2014-2021) are about 1/3 of these numbers.\
109\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 111 of 269]\
with positive probabilities). Note, however, that some degree of positive correlation\
may not be unexpected for this exercise, as the diagonal of both matrices will un-\
surprisingly consists of numbers closer to one, while some other cells will naturally\
be closer or equal to zero. Therefore, a more stringent test is to consider the corre-\
lation only of the diagonal elements. Here we once again observe high correlations\
(r>0.7 across all periods). Indeed coding errors according to the Gmatrix explain\
about two-thirds of the variance of heterogeneity on the diagonal of occupational\
transition of temporary layoffs in the second half of the CPS sample ( r=0.80).\
13\
191115175331\
4927\
213747\
3941\
4329\
23513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Temp. Layoffs   \
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
transmatprob\
(a) Temp Layoffs, Occ. Mobility, 1994+\
13\
1911151753314927\
213747\
3941\
4329\
23513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Temp. Layoffs   \
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
transmatprob (b) Temp Layoffs, Occ. Mobility, 2014-21\
13\
191115175331\
4927\
213747\
3941\
4329\
23513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Temp. Layoffs   \
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
transmatprob\
(c) Temp. Layoffs, Ind. Stayers, 1994+\
13\
1911\
15175331\
4927\
213747\
3941\
4329\
23513335250 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Probabilities of T-matrix\
Of Temp. Layoffs   \
 \
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Probabilities of Observed Transition Matrix\
Of True Occupational Stayers in 1980s\
Probabilities Regression\
transmatprob (d) Temp. Layoffs, Ind. Stayers, 2014-21\
Figure 24: Comparing temporary layoffs in the CPS with the spurious transition\
matrix from the SIPP\
Figure 24 displays the same exercise as in the previous section, where we now\
depict the values of each element of the occupation transition matrix of temporary\
layoffs on the y-axis relative to the associate value of the transition matrix implied\
byG. The top row considers all temporary layoffs (unemployed for less than 13\
weeks), while the bottom row considers the subgroup of temporary layoffs that are\
also industry stayers. We observe that the same occupations most prone to miscod-\
ing according to Gare also the ones observed among temporary layoffs: managers,\
110\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 112 of 269]\
business and \uc0\u64257 nancials operations, computer and math occupations, and physical\
sciences. Conversely, many of the occupations that are least likely to be miscoded\
according to Gare also the ones among temporary layoffs: healthcare practitioners,\
protective services, food preparation services and above all educators. Figures 24.b\
and Figure 24.d consider temporary layoffs for the more recent period 2014-2021\
and show that these patterns are largely maintained over time (if a bit more noisy).\
Some caveats Even if coding mistakes were completely persistent, the compari-\
son between the observed transition matrix of temporary layoffs and our correction\
matrix may be affected by other factors not considered in the previous section.\
First, and perhaps most importantly, the comparison of the occupational tran-\
sitions behind Gwith those of temporary layoffs relies on the assumption that the\
latter set of workers captures both the whole set of occupation stayers (and its mis-\
coding), but simultaneously no other type of worker, i.e. true movers. Deviations\
from this requirement will likely lower the observed correlation. One way to in-\
vestigate the presence of true movers among temporary layoffs is to consider their\
amount of net mobility \'96 as miscoding in\uc0\u64258 ates excess mobility rather than net mobil-\
ity. When considering all temporary layoffs, the average net occupational mobility\
rate (as de\uc0\u64257 ned in Section 2.3 of the paper) is signi\u64257 cantly lower for these workers\
than for all the unemployed, only about 1/3 of the latter. If we assume that true\
gross mobility and net mobility move roughly in proportion, this would suggest\
that a much larger share of temporary layoffs are true stayers. However, since net\
mobility does not drop to zero, some true mobility must remain. The latter seems a\
likely explanation of why, even though the top row of Figure 24 shows a high corre-\
lation between the two transition matrices, the slope of the regression line lies a bit\
further from the 45-degree line relative to the cases studied in Section 4.1.1. How-\
ever, if we focus on the subgroup of temporary layoffs that are also industry stayers\
we \uc0\u64257 nd that their average net occupational mobility rate drops by another third rel-\
ative to all temporary layoffs.53This strongly suggests that among this subgroup\
of temporary layoff workers the vast majority are indeed occupational stayers and\
hence provide a more accurate way to evaluate the persistence of the coding errors\
53Note that in theory, it could be the case that a spurious occupation change correlates with the\
realization of a spurious industry change, something not ruled by assumption A1.\
111\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 113 of 269]\
inG. Consistent with this conclusion, we observe in the bottom row of Figure 24 that\
the regression line of temporary layoffs who are also three-digit industry stayers lies\
much closer to the 45-degree line.54\
Second, there may be some differences between the CPS and SIPP that affect the\
occupational information and its coding, e.g. (slight) differences in the questions\
about occupations.55Given many similarities in terms of occupations across both\
surveys (and across time), we expect this factor not to be of great importance. Third,\
there may be \uc0\u64257 nite sample considerations. The sample sizes of the 10-year CPS\
windows are lower than the sample on which the Gis estimated in the SIPP (see\
footnote 15 and Section 1.3, respectively). We observe some indication that for the\
smaller CPS 10-year windows, the sample size may leave some role for \uc0\u64257 nite sample\
noise. In particular, the overall correlation of the temporary layoff transition matrix\
over 1994-2020 is higher (at 0.843) than the correlation with respect to the underlying\
subsets 1994-2004, 2004-2014, 2014-2020 (around 0.80).\
Having highlighted these factors, it is noteworthy that the coding error correc-\
tion matrix estimated in the 1985-1986 SIPP panels can explain between half and\
two-thirds of the variance along the diagonal of the transition matrix of temporary\
layoffs, even in the last decade. These high correlations occur even though the set of\
workers in the SIPP behind Gand the temporary layoffs in the CPS are in a very dif-\
ferent labor market situation (and formally even in a different employment status).\
Overall, this suggests that when using the G-implied miscoding correction we gain\
a much better sense of miscoding, beyond a simple uniform level adjustment ap-\
plied evenly across all occupation (which by construction has zero correlation with\
heterogeneity on the diagonal of spurious occupational mobility transition matrix).\
Implications for measured occupational mobility As a \uc0\u64257 nal exercise we use\
the observed occupational transition matrix of the subset of workers who were\
54As noted before, to the extent that some realizations of spurious industry mobility correlate with\
realizations of spurious occupation mobility (which is not ruled out by assumption A1), we may\
have restricted our sample too much to fully satisfy the condition that a representative set of true\
occupational stayers are included. However, the difference between the regression line and the 45-\
degree line remains small.\
55For example, in case the interviewee reports an occupation description that the CPS considers\
to be too general, the interviewer follows up by providing a list of more speci\uc0\u64257 c occupations from\
which the interviewee should chose from (Appendix 2 of the CPS Manual, 2015). Standard SIPP\
documentation does not report a similar routing.\
112\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 114 of 269]\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Occupational Mobility of Unemployed\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Duration unemployment spell\
Baseline Correction Uncorrected Mobility\
TL ind. stayers 1994+ TL ind. stayers '04-'14\
TL ind. stayers '14-'21Figure 25: Corrected Mobility-Duration Pro\uc0\u64257 le from Temp Layoff and G\
on temporary layoff and observed as industry stayers instead of the Gmatrix in\
order to correct the occupational mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le of the unemployed in\
our SIPP sample. We consider this subset of workers as they have the largest pro-\
portion of true occupational stayers and provide a more accurate comparison with\
the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le derived from the Gmatrix. Figure 25 shows that the\
two corrected pro\uc0\u64257 les are nearly indistinguishable, particularly during the \u64257 rst six\
month of the unemployment spell. This occurs irrespectively of whether we con-\
sider all industry-staying temporary layoffs as the base for the correction matrix, or\
focus on the subperiods 2004-2014, or even 2014-2021. In all these cases we \uc0\u64257 nd a\
high occupational mobility rate that increases moderately with unemployment du-\
ration as we did in our main analysis.\
Taken together, the above evidence strongly suggests that the Gcoding errors do\
remain relevant even in the 2010s.\
A.4.2 Assumption A2\
This assumption requires that the number of workers whose true occupation igets\
mistakenly coded as jand the number of workers whose true occupation jgets mis-\
takenly coded as iand is needed to derive equation (8) and solve for G. Although\
this assumption is clearly strong, it is important to note it is a weaker version of\
the one proposed by Keane and Wolpin (2011) and subsequently used in the struc-\
tural estimation of discrete choice models. In particular, Roys and Taber (2017) used\
this assumption to correct for occupation classi\uc0\u64257 cation error. They require that the\
113\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 115 of 269]\
number of workers whose true occupation igets mistakenly coded as occupation j\
is independent of iand jfor all i6=jand given by a constant. This implies that in\
their \'93garbling\'94 matrix all off-diagonal elements are the same. In contrast, our ap-\
proach allows (and recovers) different off-diagonal elements in G, showing the large\
heterogeneity in bilateral occupation miscoding (see also Sullivan, 2009).\
Table 24: Occupational mobility and unemployment duration\
Health prof, Account, archit, legal Managers, of\uc0\u64257 cials, Clerical Retail and sales\
School/college teachers tech., others proprietors workers workers\
Break -0.0002 0.0040 -0.0014 0.0034 0.0044\
(0.0027) (0.0039) (0.0043) (0.0033) ( 0.0030)\
Constant 0.04580.07740.14590.09660.0510\
(0.0040) (0.0100) (0.0064) (0.0134) (0.0121)\
Time trend X X X X X\
R20.8482 0.9619 0.8552 0.8294 0.8793\
Foremen Craftsmen Operatives Laborer Other service\
workers kindred workers kindred workers workers workers\
Break -0.0004 0.0012 0.0031 -0.0085-0.0031\
(0.0023) (0.0029) (0.0044) (0.0017) (0.0023)\
Constant 0.01790.04940.17170.05240.0907\
(0.0034) (0.0043) (0.0066) (0.0015) (0.0027)\
Time trend X X X X X\
R20.6108 0.7911 0.9110 0.8437 0.4639\
Levels of signi\uc0\u64257 cance:p<0.1,p<0.05,p<0.01\
Unfortunately, we cannot directly test assumption A2 in our SIPP data. Instead,\
we can investigate whether there is evidence of an important implication of A2:\
coding errors do not change the distribution of occupations across workers. The\
PSID retrospective coding exercise is suitable for this exercise as it provides cleaned\
occupations codes for workers during the period 1968-1980, but does not correct for\
coding errors in the occupations assigned to the same workers during the period\
1981-1997. Assumption A2 would imply that we should not observe any signi\uc0\u64257 cant\
change in the contribution of each individual occupation across these two periods\
after controlling for time trends.\
Table 24 reports the results of regressing the contribution of a given occupation\
across the period 1968-1997 on the \'93break\'94 indicator and cubic polynomial time\
trend.56We can observe that classi\uc0\u64257 cation errors across occupational coding do not\
seem to meaningfully change the distribution of occupation across our PSID sample.\
We observe that the break indicator is nearly zero and not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant, ex-\
cept for the unskilled laborer occupation. However, even in this case the effect of\
56Using higher order polynomials generate similar results. We also exclude the categories referring\
to armed forces and agricultural occupations as these are not included in our main analysis.\
114\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 116 of 269]\
coding error is to decrease the contribution by an average of only 0.85%. Consider-\
ing that this is a small occupation, contributing 4.20% in 1980 and 3.60% in 1981, the\
effect of coding error in this respect does not seem to be of \uc0\u64257 rst order importance.\
References\
[1] Abowd, J. and A. Zellner. 1985. \'93Estimating Gross Labor-Force Flows\'94. Journal\
of Business & Economic Statistics , 3 (3): 254-283.\
[2] Campanelli, P ., K. Thomson, N. Moon, and T. Staples. 1997. \'93The Quality of Oc-\
cupational Coding in the United Kingdom\'94. In L. Lyberg, P . Biemer, M. Collins,\
E. de Leeuw, C. Dippo, N. Schwarz, & D. Trewin (Eds.), Survey Measurement and\
Process Quality , 437-453. New York: Wiley.\
[3] Hausman, J., J. Abrevaya, and F.M. Scott-Morton. 1998. \'93Misclassi\uc0\u64257 cation of the\
Dependent Variable in a Discrete-Response Setting\'94, Journal of Econometrics , 87:\
239-269.\
[4] Hill, D. 1994. \'93The Relative Empirical Validity of Dependent and Independent\
Data Collection in a Panel Survey\'94. Journal of Of\uc0\u64257 cial Statistics , 10 (4): 359-380.\
[5] J\'e4ckle, A. and S. Eckman. 2020. \'93Is that still the same? Has that Changed? On\
the Accuracy of Measuring Change with Dependent Interviewing\'94. Journal of\
Survey Statistics and Methodology , 8(4): 706-725.\
[6] J\'e4ckle, A. 2008. \'93Dependent Interviewing: Effects on Respondent Burden and\
Ef\uc0\u64257 ciency of Data Collection\'94. Journal of Of\u64257 cial Statistics , 24 (3): 1-21.\
[7] Fujita, S. and G. Moscarini. 2017. \'93Recall and Unemployment\'94. American Eco-\
nomic Review , Vol. 102(7): 3875-3916.\
[8] Kambourov, G. and I. Manovskii. 2013. \'93A Cautionary Note on Using (March)\
Current Population Survey and Panel Study of Income Dynamics Data to Study\
Worker Mobility\'94, Macroeconomic Dynamics , 17(1): 172-194.\
[9] Kambourov, G. and I. Manovskii. 2009. \'93Occupational Speci\uc0\u64257 city of Human\
Capital\'94. International Economic Review , 50 (1): 63-115.\
115\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 117 of 269]\
[10] Kambourov, G. and I. Manovskii. 2008. \'93Rising Occupational and Industry Mo-\
bilty in the United States: 1968-97\'94. International Economic Review , 49 (1): 41-79.\
[11] Keane, M. and K. Wolpin, 2011. \'93The Effect of Parental Transfers and Borrow-\
ing Constraints on Educational Attainment\'94. International Economic Review , 42\
(4): 1051-1103.\
[12] vom Lehn, C., C. Ellsworth and Z. Kroff, 2021. \'93Reconciling Occupational Mo-\
bility in the Current Population Survey\'94, Journal of Labor Economics ,forthcoming .\
[13] Lynn, P . and E. Sala. 2007. \'93Measuring Change in Employment Characteristics:\
The Effect of Dependent Interviewing\'94. International Journal of Public Opinion\
Research , 18 (4): 500-509.\
[14] Mathiowetz, N. 1992. \'93Errors in Reports of Occupations\'94. Public Opinion Quar-\
terly , 56: 332-135.\
[15] Magnac, T. and M. Visser. 1999. \'93Transition Models with Measurement Errors\'94,\
The Review of Economics and Statistics , 81 (3): 466-474.\
[16] Moscarini, G and K. Thomsson. 2007. \'93Occupational and Job Mobility in the\
US\'94. Scandinavian Journal of Economics , 109 (4): 807-836.\
[17] Poterba, J. and L. Summers. 1986. \'93Reporting Errors and Labor Market Dynam-\
ics\'94. Econometrica , 54 (6): 1319-1338.\
[18] Roys, N. and C. Taber. 2017. \'93Skill Prices, Occupations and Changes in the\
Wage Structure\'94. Mimeo. Department of Economics, Royal Holloway, Univer-\
sity of London.\
[19] Sullivan, P . 2010. \'93Empirical evidence on occupation and industry speci\uc0\u64257 c hu-\
man capital\'94. Labour Economics , 17 (3): 567-580.\
[20] Sullivan, P . 2009. \'93Estimation of an Occupational Choice Model when Occupa-\
tions are Misclassi\uc0\u64257 ed\'94. Journal of Human Resources , 44 (2): 495-535.\
116\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 118 of 269]\
Supplementary Appendix B: Occupational Mobility in\
the Data\
In this Appendix we investigate in detail the occupational mobility patterns of\
those workers who changed employers through spells of unemployment, comple-\
menting the empirical patterns documented in the paper. Section 1 documents\
the gross occupational mobility - unemployment duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. We show that\
gross occupational mobility is high and increases moderately with spell duration\
when considering different occupation classi\uc0\u64257 cations and types of non-employment\
spells. We also show that this pro\uc0\u64257 le is widely shared among demographic groups\
and individual occupations. The main message of Section 1 is that the aggregate\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le documented in the main text is notdriven by composi-\
tion effects whereby some demographic groups and/or individual occupations are\
characterised by high mobility rates and short unemployment spells while, simul-\
taneously, others are characterised by low mobility rates and longer unemployment\
spells. This \uc0\u64257 nding motivates the assumption in our theoretical model of a common\
idiosyncratic ( z-productivity) process shared across different occupations.\
Section 2 investigates the extent to which excess and net mobility drive gross\
occupational mobility, once again using different alternative classi\uc0\u64257 cations and non-\
employment spells. The main message here is that excess occupational mobility\
is the main force behind the above gross occupational mobility - unemployment\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Nevertheless, we \u64257 nd a clear pattern in the net mobility \u64258 ows that\
is consistent with the job polarisation literature. These \uc0\u64257 ndings motivate the way\
we model workers\'92 occupational choice in our theoretical model.\
Section 3 investigates the cyclical patterns of occupational mobility among un-\
employed workers. We document that gross occupational mobility is procyclical.\
This pattern is present not only in the average mobility rate but also along the en-\
tire occupational mobility - unemployment duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Here we show that the\
cyclicality of gross occupational mobility does not depend on occupational classi\uc0\u64257 -\
cations or the inclusion of non-employment spells and that it is also present when\
controlling for demographic characteristics and individual occupation \uc0\u64257 xed effects.\
We also show that the procyclicality of gross occupational mobility is driven by\
117\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 119 of 269]\
excess mobility. In contrast, we document that net occupational mobility is counter-\
cyclical, once again showing a cyclical pattern consistent with the job polarisation\
literature.\
Section 4 investigates the aggregate hazard functions of the unemployed and the\
non-employed in our sample. Our de\uc0\u64257 nition of unemployment implies that these\
hazard functions exhibit negative duration dependence but the degree of duration\
dependence is small. We then show that occupational movers take longer to leave\
unemployment than occupational stayers and that this difference increases in reces-\
sions and decreases in expansions. We argue that the difference in unemployment\
durations between movers and stayers is related to the process of mobility itself and\
not due to occupational or demographic composition effects.\
In Section 5 we use the CPS and PSID to further investigate the extent and cycli-\
cality of gross occupational mobility among the non-employed. Section 6 constructs\
occupational mobility rate using self-reported occupational and job tenure data ob-\
tained from the topical modules of the SIPP . The advantage here is that the infor-\
mation on occupational change does not use occupational codes, but relies on the\
workers own judgement of \'91occupation\'92, \'91kind of work\'92 or \'91line of work\'92. Once again\
we \uc0\u64257 nd that gross occupational mobility among the unemployed is high and pro-\
cyclical, increasing moderately with non-employment duration. Section 7 present\
the details of the data construction.\
B.1 The occupational mobility - unemployment dura-\
tion pro\uc0\u64257 le\
Here we analyse the long-run relationship between occupational mobility and un-\
employment duration observed during the 1983-2013 period. We refer to this rela-\
tion as the occupational mobility - unemployment duration pro\uc0\u64257 le or the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le for short. We provide further support to one of our main empirical\
\uc0\u64257 ndings: the extent of occupational mobility among those workers who changed\
employers through spells of unemployed is high and increases moderately with the\
duration of the unemployment spell. We use \'91moderately\'92 to indicate that at least\
40% of long-duration unemployed workers return to their previous major occupa-\
118\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 120 of 269]\
tion upon re-employment. We show that this pattern holds under alternative oc-\
cupational classi\uc0\u64257 cations and when aggregating major occupations into task-based\
categories (see Acemoglu and Autor, 2011). This pattern also holds when consider-\
ing non-employment spells instead of just unemployment spells, and can be found\
within gender, education and age groups as well as at the level of individual occu-\
pations. These \uc0\u64257 ndings are important as they counter concerns that the aggregate\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le is driven by differences in the demographic or occupa-\
tional composition of the out\uc0\u64258 ows from unemployment at different durations. This\
suggests that there is a common underlying process shared across these subgroups\
which leads long-duration unemployed workers to be still signi\uc0\u64257 cantly attached to\
their previous occupation.\
Table 25 reports the estimated mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les across occupational cat-\
egories and demographic groups. In particular, panel A reports the G-corrected\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le, where the \u64257 rst row shows the average occupational mo-\
bility rates over all unemployment (non-employment) spells and the second row\
reports the OLS estimate of the linear relation between completed unemployment\
duration and occupational mobility, bdur. To estimate the latter we compute the raw\
occupation transition matrix of all workers with the same unemployment duration.\
We then apply to this matrix our G-correction and compute the average corrected oc-\
cupational mobility rate. This is done for each month of completed unemployment\
duration between 1 and 14 months. We estimate bdurby regressing the set of aver-\
age mobility rates on completed duration, weighing each monthly observation by\
the number of workers in the corresponding duration group (which itself involves\
summing the person weights by month).\
Panel B reports the uncorrected mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in the same fashion as\
in panel A. However, since in the uncorrected data we can use individual workers\'92\
unemployment spells to estimate bdur, we regress the following linear probability\
model (probits give nearly identical results)\
1occmob =b0+bdurduration of U (or N) spell +#, (R1)\
where 1occmob is a binary indicator that takes the value of one (zero) if a worker\
changed (did not change) occupation at the end of his/her unemployment (non-\
employment) spell, \'93duration of U (or N) spell\'94 is the individual\'92s completed un-\
119\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 121 of 269]\
employment (non-employment) spell and #is the error term. The advantage of the\
individual-level uncorrected data is that we can take into account worker\'92s char-\
acteristics and evaluate their role in shaping the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. This is\
done in panels C, D and E.\
Column (1) of Table 25 presents our benchmark result which is based on ma-\
jor occupational groups of the 2000 Census Classi\uc0\u64257 cation of Occupations (or 2000\
SOC). To consistently use the 2000 SOC throughout the period of study, we applied\
the IPUMS homogenisation procedure to convert previous classi\uc0\u64257 cations used in\
the SIPP . The 2000 SOC has 23 major occupational groups as its most aggregated\
classi\uc0\u64257 cation, which we further reduce to 21 as we leave \'93army\'94 and \'93agricultural\
occupations\'94 out of our sample.\
Figure 26a depicts the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le using this occupational classi-\
\uc0\u64257 cation, but based on an alternative formulation. Namely, for a given unemploy-\
ment duration x, the \uc0\u64257 gure depicts gross occupational mobility as the fraction of\
workers who had at least xmonths in unemployment and changed occupation at\
re-employment among those workers who had at least xmonths in unemployment\
before regaining employment. This way of presenting the pro\uc0\u64257 le allows to read di-\
rectly from the graph the average occupational mobility rate of the sample of work-\
ers who had completed unemployment durations of at least xmonths. In what\
follows every time we graph the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le, we will be using this\
alternative formulation.\
In both the table and \uc0\u64257 gure the average ( G-corrected and uncorrected) probabil-\
ity of an occupational change is high and increases moderately with unemployment\
duration. Further, note that the slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le is slightly\
steeper with the corrected measures. This arises as miscoding (and hence spurious\
mobility) is more common among observations with short unemployment dura-\
tions. The G-correction will then adjust more the shorter than the longer duration\
spells and yield a steeper pro\uc0\u64257 le relative to the uncorrected data. Also with con-\
siderably more short than long spells in the sample, the regression coef\uc0\u64257 cient on\
duration is more representative of the slope at short completed durations.\
The rest of the columns of Table 25 present the results for a number of different\
ways of classifying occupational mobility. Column (2) uses instead the major oc-\
cupational groups of the 1990 Census Classi\uc0\u64257 cation of Occupations (or 1990 SOC).\
120\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 122 of 269]\
Columns (3) to (5) aggregate occupations into task-based categories. Column (6)\
considers the case of simultaneous occupational and industry mobility as an alter-\
native way to minimise the effects of coding errors in the occupational mobility\
rates. Column (7) considers industry mobility, as a comparison to occupational mo-\
bility. Column (8) uses the major groups of the 2000 SOC but instead considers\
non-employment spells that contain at least one month of unemployment (\'91NUN\'92-\
spells). We now discuss each one in turn. We then discuss the effects of worker\
demographics characteristic and the role of individual occupations.\
Table 25: The occupational mobility - unemployment duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC NR/R-M/C NR/R-M/C* C/NRM/RM OCC*IND IND 2000 SOC-NUN\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
no. obs. 19,115 19,051 24,815 18,527 18,604 19,054 19,055 19,386\
Panel A: miscoding corrected mobility, no demographic characteristics, no time, no occ/ind controls\
av occmob 0.444*** 0.419*** 0.271*** 0.296*** 0.227*** 0.3838*** 0.485*** 0.469***\
(s.e.) (0.0043) (0.0043) (0.0037) (0.0034) (0.0035) (0.0053) (0.0039) (0.0060)\
dur coef 0.0173*** 0.0197*** 0.0111*** 0.0123*** 0.0098*** 0.0116*** 0.0146*** 0.0184***\
(s.e.) (0.0017) (0.0023) (0.0018) (0.0022) (0.0023) (0.0016) (0.0012) (0.0016)\
Panel B: uncorrected, no demog, no time, no occ/ind controls\
av occmob 0.5312*** 0.5221*** 0.3391*** 0.3659*** 0.2809*** 0.3838*** 0.5285*** 0.5504***\
(s.e.) (0.0054) (0.0054) (0.0052) (0.0052) (0.0049) (0.0053) (0.0055) (0.0044)\
dur coef 0.0142*** 0.0149*** 0.0093*** 0.0103*** 0.0086*** 0.0116*** 0.0131*** 0.0149***\
(s.e.) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0016) (0.0015) (0.0010)\
Panel C: uncorrected, with demog, time controls, no occ/ind controls\
dur coef 0.0150*** 0.0156*** 0.0103*** 0.0112*** 0.0085*** 0.0123*** 0.0137*** 0.0145***\
(s.e.) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0016) (0.0016) (0.0010)\
female 0.0208** -0.0283*** 0.0713*** 0.0292*** -0.0273*** 0.0012 0.0154* 0.0165**\
(s.e.) (0.0083) (0.0083) (0.0080) (0.0081) (0.0074) (0.0082) (0.0084) (0.0069)\
hs drop -0.0421*** -0.0406*** -0.0545*** -0.0504*** -0.0379*** -0.0212* -0.0309** -0.0436***\
(s.e.) (0.0118) (0.0118) (0.0106) (0.0110) (0.0104) (0.0116) (0.0120) (0.0099)\
some col 0.0223** 0.0099 0.0364*** 0.0312*** -0.0206** 0.0125 0.0287*** 0.0235**\
(s.e.) (0.0108) (0.0108) (0.0104) (0.0106) (0.0101) (0.0107) (0.0109) (0.0092)\
col grad 0.0377*** -0.0151 0.0181 -0.0090 -0.1391*** 0.0014 0.0047 0.0244**\
(s.e.) (0.0122) (0.0122) (0.0117) (0.0117) (0.0101) (0.0119) (0.0124) (0.0102)\
black 0.0315** -0.0000 0.0265** 0.0159 0.0468*** 0.0315** 0.0189 0.0247**\
(s.e.) (0.0124) (0.0122) (0.0119) (0.0120) (0.0116) (0.0125) (0.0126) (0.0103)\
time trend 0.0013*** 0.0012*** 0.0010*** 0.0009*** 0.0009*** 0.0010*** 0.0012*** 0.0011***\
(s.e.) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002)\
Panel D: uncorrected, additionally interactions of demog. with duration; demog. & time ctrls\
female*dur -0.0014 -0.0013 0.0048 0.0034 0.0018 0.0008 0.0001 -0.0025\
(s.e.) (0.0030) (0.0031) (0.0031) (0.0031) (0.0029) (0.0032) (0.0031) (0.0021)\
hs drop*dur -0.0022 -0.0051 -0.0000 -0.0023 -0.0037 0.0021 -0.0006 -0.0007\
(s.e.) (0.0043) (0.0042) (0.0041) (0.0042) (0.0040) (0.0044) (0.0044) (0.0030)\
(some col)*dur 0.0048 0.0019 -0.0011 -0.0001 0.0022 0.0074* 0.0004 0.0025\
(s.e.) (0.0037) (0.0037) (0.0039) (0.0039) (0.0038) (0.0039) (0.0039) (0.0026)\
(col grad)*dur 0.0045 0.0005 0.0005 -0.0017 -0.0032 0.0081* 0.0054 0.0047\
(s.e.) (0.0043) (0.0043) (0.0045) (0.0045) (0.0041) (0.0045) (0.0045) (0.0030)\
black*dur 0.0020 0.0005 0.0022 0.0027 0.0064 0.0002 -0.0012 0.0010\
(s.e.) (0.0043) (0.0043) (0.0044) (0.0045) (0.0045) (0.0045) (0.0044) (0.0030)\
Panel E: F-test equality duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient across gender, educ and race\
p-value 0.756 0.904 0.852 0.7 0.382 0.621 0.906 0.453\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
121\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 123 of 269]\
B.1.1 Gross occupational mobility under alternative occupational\
classi\uc0\u64257 cations\
1990 Census Classi\uc0\u64257 cation of Occupations The 2000 SOC provided a major\
revision of the 1990 SOC as a response to the changing structure of jobs in the US.\
The major difference between these two classi\uc0\u64257 cations relies on the former grouping\
occupations based on the concept of \'93job families\'94 by placing individuals who work\
together in the same occupational group. The result was that some occupations\
that belonged to different groups in the 1990 SOC were pulled together in the 2000\
SOC revision. This led to an increase in the size of occupations like \'93professional\'94,\
\'93technical\'94, \'93management\'94 and \'93services\'94.\
In\uc0\u64258 uential work, however, relies on the 1990 SOC to understand occupational\
change in the US (see Autor and Dorn, 2013, among others). To verify that our con-\
clusions are not affected by the type of classi\uc0\u64257 cation used, we compute the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le based on the 1990 SOC. In this case we apply the homogenisation\
procedure proposed by Autor and Dorn (2013). The 1990 SOC provides 13 major oc-\
cupational groups from which we aggregate the services related occupations (\'93pro-\
tective services\'94, \'93private households\'94 and \'93others\'94) into one single major group.\
We do this as the \'93protective services\'94 and \'93private households\'94 occupations are\
very small in size. At the same time we expand the \'93precision, production, craft\
and repair\'94 into three new major groups: \'93precision production\'94, \'93mechanics and\
repair\'94 and \'93construction trade occupations\'94. This allows us to evaluate \'93construc-\
tion\'94 as a separate group.\
Column (2) of panel B in Table 25 shows that in the uncorrected data we ob-\
tain nearly identical results when using the 2000 SOC or the 1990 SOC. Applying\
theG-correction yields a slightly lower average mobility rate and a slightly larger\
duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient when using the 1990 SOC. Despite these differences, Figure 26\
shows the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les and the associate 95% con\u64257 dence intervals on\
uncorrected data. It shows that long-duration unemployed with completed spells\
of at least 9 months change occupations in 53% of cases in both the 1990 and 2000\
classi\uc0\u64257 cations.\
122\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 124 of 269]\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed)(a) 2000 SOC\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed) (b) 1990 SOC\
Figure 26: Extent of mobility by unemployment duration - Major occupational\
groups\
Routine vs Non-Routine, Cognitive vs Manual Occupational Categorization\
A related set of important work has documented a pattern of job polarization dur-\
ing our period of study (1983-2013). This pattern is characterised by a decline in the\
employment shares and levels of occupations that have a high content of routine\
tasks (see Autor et al., 2003, Goos and Manning, 2007, and Acemoglu and Autor,\
2011, among others). Although at the heart of this evidence lies the changing di-\
rection of net \uc0\u64258 ows across occupations (a topic we address in Section 2 below), it\
is important for our study to \uc0\u64257 rst investigate whether the mobility-duration pro\u64257 le\
documented above is also observed when aggregating the major occupations into\
the task-based categories suggested by the job polarization literature. In particular,\
we aggregate the 13 major occupational groups of the 1990 SOC into routine manual\
(RM), non-routine manual (NRM), routine cognitive (RC) and non-routine cognitive\
(NRC).\
Column (3) of Table 25 shows the estimates based on the RM/NRM/RC/NRC\
grouping. In this case we follow Cortes et al. (2016) and de\uc0\u64257 ne the RM occupa-\
tions to be (i) \'93precision production\'94, (ii) \'93machine operators and assemblers\'94, (iii)\
\'93mechanics and repairers\'94, (iv) \'93laborers and helpers\'94, (v) \'93transportation and ma-\
terial moving\'94 and (vi) \'93construction and extractive\'94. The NRM occupations to be\
the \'93service occupations\'94. The RC occupations to be (i) \'93sales occupations\'94 and (ii)\
\'93administrative support and clerical occupations\'94. The NRC occupations to be (i)\
\'93management occupations\'94, (ii) \'93professional specialties\'94 and (iii) \'93technicians and\
123\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 125 of 269]\
related support occupations\'94.\
Column (4) considers an alternative classi\uc0\u64257 cation in which we move the \'93trans-\
portation and material moving\'94 occupation to the NRM group (see Autor et al.,\
2003). This is done mainly because this occupation exhibits a low routine-intensity\
score. Table 26 illustrates this feature by reporting the average routine task-intensity\
(together with the abstract and manual task intensity) of each major occupation of\
the 2000 SOC, using the occupation-task intensity crosswalk of Autor and Dorn\
(2013). Its third column reports the average routine task intensity of the pre-separation\
three-digit occupation held by unemployed workers. It is clear that \'93transportation\
and material moving\'94 has one of the lowest routine task-intensity scores.57Ad-\
ditional reasons to include \'93transportation and material moving\'94 into the NRM\
groups are that this occupation exhibits net in\uc0\u64258 ows, while the other conventional\
RM occupations are net losers of workers; and that it also behaves cyclically similar\
to other NRM occupations.\
Table 25 shows that under both task-based categorizations the average occupa-\
tional mobility rates is high: 26% (33%) and 29% (35%) of all unemployment spells\
in the G-corrected (uncorrected) data involved workers changing task-based occu-\
pational categories. It also shows that the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient implies a modestly\
increasing pro\uc0\u64257 le. Figures 27a and 27b present the mobility-duration pro\u64257 les and\
the associate con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals. It shows that workers who had unemployment\
spells of at least 9 months experience about a 34% and 37% probability of chang-\
ing task-based groups. Figure 27c shows the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le by assigning\
\'93transportation and material moving\'94 into the NRM category, using the 2000 SOC.\
Once again we observe that choosing the 2000 SOC or the 1990 SOC to classify oc-\
cupations makes little difference.\
Column (5) of Table 25 presents the results for another task-based classi\uc0\u64257 cation.\
In this case we merge the routine cognitive and non-routine cognitive categories\
together, to focus on transitions between routine manual and non-routine manual,\
relative to all other (cognitive) occupations. This aggregation is motivated by the\
observed direction of the net \uc0\u64258 ows across the task-based occupations, which we\
discuss in detail in Section 2. It aims to highlight the disappearance of routine man-\
57A similar ranking occurs when using the 1990 SOC. We use the 2000 SOC in Table 26 to refer\
back to the results presented in the main text, which are based in the latter classi\uc0\u64257 cation.\
124\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 126 of 269]\
Table 26: Routine (Abstract, Manual) task intensity for source occupations of U in-\
\uc0\u64258 ow\
Occupation U in\uc0\u64258 ow distr Routine Int. Abstract Int. Manual Int. Class.\
Protective service 1.30 1.52 0.87 0.83 NRM\
Management 6.22 1.91 6.95 0.29 NRC\
Educ, training, and library 2.84 2.17 3.97 1.22 NRC\
Personal care/Service 1.51 2.21 1.54 0.97 NRM\
Transportation & Mat moving 11.58 2.35 0.84 2.92 NRM\
Comm & Social service 0.64 2.60 4.89 0.17 NRC\
Building/Grounds clean & maint. 4.97 2.97 0.93 2.30 NRM\
Food prep/Serving & rel. 6.85 3.00 1.38 1.01 NRM\
Legal 0.31 3.39 3.23 0.28 NRC\
Healthcare support 2.08 3.53 1.70 1.67 NRM\
Computer and Math. occ 1.12 3.62 5.78 1.22 NRC\
Arts/Dsgn/Entrtmnt/Sports/Media 1.21 3.69 3.61 0.97 NRC\
Sales & related occ 10.42 3.79 2.92 0.65 RC\
Buss & Financial operations 2.67 3.86 6.50 0.43 NRC\
Life, phys, and social science 0.68 4.74 4.67 0.84 NRC\
Architect & Eng. 1.62 5.96 6.52 1.29 NRC\
Production 12.88 6.03 1.40 1.20 RM\
Of\uc0\u64257 ce/Admin Support 13.04 6.16 2.03 0.30 RC\
Construction/Extraction 12.53 6.37 1.76 3.02 RM\
Healthcare pract & Tech 1.72 6.64 3.17 1.22 NRC\
Install/Maint/Repair 3.80 6.65 2.05 1.79 RM\
125\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 127 of 269]\
ual jobs and the rise of non-routine manual jobs as a key feature of unemployed\
workers\'92 occupational mobility, and reduce the role of \'93management occupations\'94\
which accounts for the vast majority of net out\uc0\u64258 ows from non-routine cognitive\
occupations. Nevertheless, we again observe that, even with this very coarse sub-\
division, there remains substantial occupational mobility (over 20%) which mod-\
estly increases with unemployment duration. Figure 27d presents graphically the\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le and the associate con\u64257 dence intervals.\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed)\
(a) RM/NRM/RC/NRC (1990 SOC-based, Trans-\
port in RM)\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed)(b) RM/NRM/RC/NRC (1990 SOC-based, Trans-\
port in NRM)\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed)\
(c) RM/NRM/RC/NRC (2000 SOC-based, Trans-\
port in NRM)\
.1 .2 .3 .4 .5Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed)(d) RM/NRM/C (1990 SOC-based, Transport in\
NRM)\
Figure 27: Extent of mobility by unemployment duration - Task based categorisation\
126\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 128 of 269]\
B.1.2 Industry Mobility, and Simultaneous Occupation and Indus-\
try Mobility\
Next we consider the case of simultaneous occupational and industry mobility as an\
alternative way to minimise the effects of coding errors in the occupational mobility\
rates in the raw data. This approach follows Neal (1999), Moscarini and Thomsson\
(2007), Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) and Pavan (2011), and it is based on the\
assumption that workers who are observed changing occupations, are more likely\
to be true movers when they are also observed changing employers and industries.\
Column (4) of Table 25 shows the average mobility rate and duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient\
for the sample of workers for which we have valid (and non imputed) occupation\
and industry information. In this case we use the major occupational groups of the\
2000 SOC and the 15 major industry groups of the 1990 Census Bureau industrial\
classi\uc0\u64257 cation system. Since simultaneous occupational and industry mobility can be\
taken as an alternative measure of true occupational mobility (see references above),\
we report this measure both in panels A and B without any further adjustment.\
Once again we observe that the extent of occupational mobility among those who\
changed employers through spells of unemployed is high and increases moderately\
with unemployment duration.\
The mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le obtained from simultaneous occupational and in-\
dustry mobility is depicted in Figure 28a, together with the G-corrected mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le depicted in Figure 26a for comparison and the associate con\u64257 dence\
intervals. The former shows that about 38% of workers who had unemployment\
spells of at least one month changed major occupations and industries at re-employment,\
while about 46% of workers who had unemployment spells of at least 9 months\
changed major occupations and industries at re-employment. These rates are around\
5 percentage points lower but not too dissimilar from the ones obtained from the\
G-corrected pro\uc0\u64257 le for occupational mobility. This suggests that conditioning on si-\
multaneous industry and occupational transitions can provide a useful alternative\
to gauge the level of gross occupational mobility rates.\
Caution is advised, however, when constructing statistics that lean more heavily\
on occupational identities or capture measurement of change in occupational mo-\
bility rates. When using the occupation/industry cross-product to inform true oc-\
127\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 129 of 269]\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
2000 SOC ( G-corrected, smoothed) Occ x Ind (uncorrected) 95% CI\
Occ x Ind (uncorrected, unsm.) Occ x Ind (uncorrected, smoothed)(a) Simultaneous Occ and Ind. mob\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
All (G-corrected, smoothed) All (uncorrected) 95% CI\
All (uncorrected, unsmoothed) All (uncorrected, smoothed) (b) Industry mobility\
Figure 28: Extent of mobility by unemployment duration - Relation with industry\
mobility\
cupational mobility, two mistakes will be made. (i) True occupational movers who\
are true industry stayers will be mistakenly left aside. This issue might be more\
prevalent in some occupations and less so in others, and hence can unevenly affect\
the measurement of net mobility. For this reason, in what follows we will use simul-\
taneous industry and occupation transitions to construct gross mobility rates and\
not net mobility measures. (ii) For true industry movers who are also true occupa-\
tional stayers, there will be a (on average) 20% probability of mistakenly considering\
them as simultaneous occupation and industry movers. It is not clear whether the\
size of these two types of errors will stay constant when, for example, measuring\
differences between subsamples with different true mobility rates.58Nevertheless,\
it is evident that the simultaneous mobility measure also indicates a high level of\
occupational mobility that moderately increases with unemployment duration.\
Column (5) of Table 25 report the G-corrected and the uncorrected average mobil-\
ity rates and the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cients of workers who changed employers through\
unemployment, using only the 15 major industry groups of the 1990 Census Bureau\
industrial classi\uc0\u64257 cation system. Figure 28b also presents the G-corrected and the\
uncorrected mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les. This evidence con\u64257 rms that many unem-\
58It is relatively straightforward to verify that the (uncorrected) slope of the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le can suffer from attenuation bias arising from miscoding. While our G-corrections pushes\
against this bias, this does not seem to be the case when using the simultaneous mobility measure.\
In this case we observe that the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le has a somewhat lower slope than both\
the raw occupational and industrial mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les, and therefore even lower than the\
G-corrected slopes.\
128\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 130 of 269]\
ployed workers also changed industries at re-employment. In the uncorrected data\
we observe that around 53% of workers who had unemployment spells of at least a\
month changed industries at re-employment, while about 60% of workers who had\
unemployment spells of at least 9 months changed industries at re-employment.\
These rates are remarkably close to the raw occupational mobility rates reported in\
columns (1) and (2). The G-correction mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le of industry mobility,\
however, drops by less than the occupation pro\uc0\u64257 les, with an average mobility of\
48.5%. This is consistent with the well-known fact that industry mobility rates are\
less prone to measurement error than occupational mobility rates (as also reported\
in Table 5 of Supplementary Appendix A).\
B.1.3 Occupational mobility through non-employment spells\
The above analysis restricts attention to non-employment spell in which workers\
where unemployed every month, categorised as \'93no job/business - looking for\
work or on layoff\'94 in the SIPP . We now consider the case in which workers spend\
part of their non-employment spell outside of the labor force, categorised as \'93no\
job/business - not looking for work and not on layoff\'94 in the SIPP . This allows us\
to investigate whether the mobility-duration patterns documented above are also\
present when we include joblessness periods in which workers reported no active\
job search. This case also allows us to investigate whether the mobility-duration pro-\
\uc0\u64257 le based on \'93pure\'94 unemployment spells is driven by a composition effect based\
on workers\'92 differential propensities to drop out of the labor force. In particular,\
if workers had ex-ante different propensities to change occupations and if these\
propensities were negatively associated with the probability of dropping out of the\
labor force after long periods of joblessness (for example, due to discouragement\
effects), a restriction to \'93pure\'94 unemployment spells could be effectively selecting\
occupational movers at higher unemployment durations. This would then lead to\
a different interpretation of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le than the one proposed by\
our theoretical framework.\
To address this concern we compute the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le for workers\
with different degrees of labor market attachment: (1) \'91U\'92 spells, our baseline, where\
the individual is \'93looking for work\'94 every month of the non-employment spell.\
129\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 131 of 269]\
(2) \'91UNU\'92 spells, where the worker starts the non-employment spell \'93looking for a\
work\'94 and ends it also \'93looking for a work\'94, but can have intervening months out-\
side the labor force. (3) \'91UN\'92 spells, where the worker starts the non-employment\
spell \'93looking for work\'94 and this can be followed by periods out of the labor force,\
before regaining employment (not necessarily reporting unemployment just before\
re-employment). (4) \'91NU\'92 spells, where the worker might or might not be \'93looking\
for work\'94 after separation, but eventually \'93looks for work\'94 and \uc0\u64257 nds one shortly\
thereafter. (5) \'91N*\'92 spells, where the worker loses his job for economic reasons tied\
in with the job (as indicated by the \'91reason for ending previous job\'92, or starts looking\
for a job when he becomes non-employed.59(6) \'91NUN\'92 spells, where the worker\
\'93looks for work\'94 at least one month during the non-employment spell. (7) \'91N\'92\
spells, covering all non-employment spells in the sample that are completed within\
18 months.\
Table 27: Non-employment spells - basic statistics\
Num. obs Occ. mobility (%) Job \uc0\u64257 nding rate (%)\
(1) U 12,278 44.4 23.1\
(2) UNU 14,861 45.3 19.7\
(3) UN 16,106 45.9 18.1\
(4) NU 17,579 46.4 17.2\
(5) N* 18,559 46.0 17.5\
(6) NUN 19,060 47.0 15.9\
(7) N 27,931 43.2 16.7\
Column (8) of Table 25 reports the average mobility rate and duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient\
for the \'91NUN\'92 case using the major occupation categories of the 2000 SOC. It shows\
that the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le is very similar to the one obtained when consider-\
ing only unemployment spells in between jobs. Table 27 then compares the \'91NUN\'92\
case with the rest of the cases described above. The \uc0\u64257 rst column shows the amount\
of eligible spells for the 1983-2013 period, where we have arranged the number of\
spells in ascending order. The number of eligible spells takes into account that we\
do not want to create a bias because of left-censoring. Therefore we only count\
those spells that end after more than 16 months into the sample. At the same time\
59The reasons we consider in this case are: (i) employer bankrupt, (ii) employer sold business;\
(iii) job was temporary and ended, (iv) slack work or business conditions, (v) unsatisfactory work\
arrangements (hours, pay, etc), (vi) quit for some other reason. We do not consider: quit to take an-\
other job, retirement or old age, childcare problems, other family/personal obligations, own illness,\
own injury, school/training.\
130\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 132 of 269]\
we want to ensure that the relevant observations are not too close to the end of the\
panel, at least 1 year away from it, to avoid biases due to right-censoring.60Anal-\
ogously to our treatment of unemployment spells, we consider workers to enter\
non-employment only if they have not been employed for more than a month.\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
U (G-corrected, smoothed) UNU ( G-corrected, sm)\
NUN ( G-corrected, smoothed) N*(G-corrected, sm)\
(a) U, NUN, UN, NU\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
UNU ( G-corrected, smoothed) N* (G-corrected, sm)\
N (G-corrected, smoothed) N (G-corrected, unsm.) (b) UNU, N*, N\
Figure 29: Extent of mobility by non-employment duration - Gcorrected\
The second column of Table 27 shows the G-corrected average occupational mo-\
bility rates of all those workers who had at least one month in non-employment\
before regaining employment. We can readily observe very similar and high aver-\
age occupational mobility rates across different degrees of labor market attachment.\
Figure 29 shows the G-corrected mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les for all these cases. It is\
immediate that these pro\uc0\u64257 les are also very similar to each other. Overall, this means\
that the concern that our baseline restriction to (pure) unemployment is selecting\
occupational movers at long unemployment durations appears not to be supported\
by the data. Workers who spend part of their non-employment spell outside the\
labor force have very similar mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les as those who spend all their\
non-employment spell actively looking for work.61\
60When controlling for non-/unemployment duration in the regressions, censoring is less of an is-\
sue. In that case we use a less stringent selection criterion, and as a result we have more observations,\
as can be seen in the \uc0\u64257 rst line of Table 25.\
61Note, however, that including non-employment spells that are spent wholly outside of the labor\
force (\'91N\'92 spells), leads to a somewhat steeper mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. This is visible especially\
when we consider the non-smoothed observations in Figure 29b. This difference originates entirely\
by the set of short completed spells ( three months) in which workers were exclusively out of the\
labor force and exhibited a signi\uc0\u64257 cantly lower probability of changing occupation at re-employment.\
These short \'91pure N\'92-spells may re\uc0\u64258 ect employer-to-employer moves with a delayed start. After\
three months the\'91N\'92 mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le then follows the other pro\u64257 les.\
131\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 133 of 269]\
Although not shown in the \uc0\u64257 gure, we also observe that when using non-employment\
spells the G-corrected and uncorrected mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les relate to each other\
in a similar way as documented when using pure unemployment spells. For exam-\
ple, in the case of the \'91UNU\'92 spells we \uc0\u64257 nd a 7.1 percentage points average differ-\
ence between the corrected and uncorrected pro\uc0\u64257 les, while for the \'91NUN\'92 spells the\
average difference is of 6.7 percentage points.\
B.1.4 Demographics\
We now investigate the extent to which different demographic groups have differ-\
ent propensities to change occupations and how these propensities change with un-\
employment (non-employment) duration. In particular, we want to know whether\
there is evidence of a demographic composition effect driving the aggregate mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. To analyse the impact of demographic characteristics we use the\
uncorrected, individual-based, data and augment equation (R1) by including dum-\
mies for gender, race and education, a quartic in age, a linear time trend, and dum-\
mies for the classi\uc0\u64257 cation used to report occupations (industries) in each panel. The\
resulting regression is then given by\
1occmob =b0+bdurduration of U (or N) spell +beducdum Education +bracedum Race\
+bsexdum Gender +btimeQuarter +bclsdum classi\uc0\u64257 cation +bage(Quartic in Age ) +#,\
(R2)\
where as a baseline we chose white high school educated male individuals. The\
demographic dummies attempt to capture any \uc0\u64257 xed characteristics that differenti-\
ate the average probability of an occupational change across these groups. Further,\
if some demographic characteristics are associated with higher (lower) propensi-\
ties to move occupations at re-employment and if these propensities are positively\
associated with longer (shorter) unemployment durations, the inclusion of the de-\
mographic dummies will also capture any composition effects that could be driving\
the slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Hence signi\u64257 cant changes to the esti-\
mated value of the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient, bdur, when using equation (R2) instead of\
(R1) would suggest that demographic composition effects are at work.\
132\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 134 of 269]\
Gender and Education The \uc0\u64257 rst row of panel C of Table 25 shows that the inclu-\
sion of the gender and education dummies do not meaningfully affect the coef\uc0\u64257 cient\
on unemployment duration. Across all columns, the point estimates of the duration\
coef\uc0\u64257 cient are marginally higher relative to the point estimates in panel B and their\
differences are not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant. Therefore we do not \u64257 nd evidence that\
the increase in occupational mobility with unemployment duration is a result of dif-\
ferent demographic composition among those that re-gain employment at different\
unemployment durations. The rest of the estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cients in panel C show\
that the average probability of an occupational change only differs a few percentage\
points across gender and education groups. For example, using the 2000 SOC the\
average occupational mobility rate of females is 2.1 percentage points higher than\
for males; while the average occupational mobility rate of a high school graduate is\
around 4.2 percentage points higher than for high school dropouts and 3.4 percent-\
age points lower than college graduates.62\
Panel D shows the estimates of augmenting equation (R2) by interactions be-\
tween the completed unemployment duration, gender and education. This is done\
to investigate whether the different demographic groups exhibit different slopes in\
their respective mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les. The lack of statistical signi\u64257 cance of the\
interaction terms then suggests that the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les speci\u64257 c to the\
gender and educational subgroups exhibit similar slopes. This is further con\uc0\u64257 rmed\
in panel E, where we test the joint equality of the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cients across these\
demographic groups. We cannot reject that the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cients are equal, even\
at higher p-values.\
Figure 30 depicts the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les by gender and two education\
subgroups. Figure 30a depicts the occupational mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le by gender,\
while Figure 30b depicts the pro\uc0\u64257 les for high school graduates and college grad-\
uates. We observe that across these demographics occupational mobility is high,\
above 40%. Moreover, although the slope is somewhat stronger for males, the in-\
crease of occupational mobility with unemployment duration is moderate, in the\
62The exception is the college graduates group in the 3-category task-based classi\uc0\u64257 cation (see col-\
umn (8)). This arises because in this case we have aggregated all cognitive occupations, which repre-\
sent the bulk of occupations chosen by college graduates, into one task-based group. The remaining\
mobility of these workers is therefore mostly into (or from) manual occupations. Around 10% of\
college graduates ( G-corrected measure) move across these task-based groups rising to about 15%\
for long-term unemployed workers.\
133\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 135 of 269]\
sense longer-term unemployed more often change occupations, yet between 45-50%\
will still return to the previous occupation, across gender and education.\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
Female (raw data) Male (raw data)\
Female ( G-corrected, smoothed) Male ( G-corrected, sm.)\
(a) Gender\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
HS grad (raw data) Col grad (raw data)\
HS grad ( G-corrected, smoothed) Col Grad ( G-corrected, sm.) (b) High school graduates and college graduates\
Figure 30: The mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le by gender and education groups\
Linear Time Trend The last two rows of panel C of Table 25 shows that the av-\
erage occupational mobility rate of the unemployed has been increasing over time.\
The estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cients are statistically signi\u64257 cant and economically meaning-\
ful. This is consistent with the rise in overall occupational mobility documented by\
Kambourov and Manovskii (2008). As the main focus of our paper is on the cyclical\
patterns of occupational mobility, we leave the investigation of these long-run in-\
crease for future research. However, we note that controlling for a linear time trend\
does not have a major impact on the documented behavior of the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le and its cyclical responsiveness.\
Age groups The most signi\uc0\u64257 cant difference across all the demographic groups\
considered is between young and prime-aged workers. We de\uc0\u64257 ne young workers as\
those who left education (and hence fully entered the labor market) and are between\
20-30 years. Prime-aged workers are those workers who are between 35 and 55 years\
of age. Figure 31 depicts the uncorrected and G-corrected mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les\
of these workers.\
Panel A of Table 28 reports the average occupational mobility rate of young and\
prime-aged workers, after correcting for miscoding. The \uc0\u64257 rst two rows show that\
134\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 136 of 269]\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7 .8Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
Young (raw data) Young ( G-corrected, smoothed)\
95% CI (raw data) Young (uncorrected, smoothed)(a) Young workers\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7 .8Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment (months) \
Prime-aged (raw data) Prime-aged ( G-corrected, smoothed)\
95% CI (raw data) Prime-aged (uncorrected, smoothed) (b) Prime-aged workers\
Figure 31: The mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le by age groups\
across classi\uc0\u64257 cations the difference between young and prime-aged workers\'92 av-\
erage occupational mobility rates is about 10 percentage points. The second two\
rows show that this difference diminishes somewhat with unemployment duration.\
The last two rows summarise all this information by showing the ratio between the\
occupational mobility rate of those long-term unemployed (with spells of at least 9\
months) and the occupational mobility rate of all those unemployed of the same age\
group. In particular, we observe that across the different classi\uc0\u64257 cations young work-\
ers with unemployment spells of at least 9 months have an occupational mobility\
rate that is about 15% higher than the average mobility rate of all young unem-\
ployed workers. In the case of prime-aged workers, this ratio is about 20%. Panel B\
shows very similar conclusions for the uncorrected data.\
Panel C reports the estimated difference between young and prime-aged work-\
ers\'92 average occupational mobility rates obtained from regressing 1occmob on a con-\
stant and a dummy that takes the value one if the worker belongs to the prime-age\
group and zero otherwise. In this case we restrict to the sample that only contains\
either young or prime-aged workers. As in panel A, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the difference\
between the occupational mobility rates of young and prime-aged workers is of\
about 10 percentage points. Panel D shows the estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cient of the prime-\
age dummy when augmenting this regression with controls for demographic char-\
acteristics (gender, race, education) and a linear time trend. In this case we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
adding these additional regressors does not meaningfully affect the estimated dif-\
135\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 137 of 269]\
Table 28: Occupational mobility of young and prime-aged\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC NR/R-M/C NR/R-M/C* C/NRM/RM OCC*IND IND 2000 SOC-NUN\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
Panel A: Overall mobility of different age groups (corrected)\
young -all 0.521 0.489 0.335 0.365 0.305 0.443 0.533 0.528\
prime -all 0.398 0.375 0.229 0.250 0.179 0.344 0.447 0.428\
young -9+ months 0.585 0.582 0.383 0.439 0.354 0.511 0.636 0.598\
prime -9+ months 0.499 0.489 0.300 0.331 0.255 0.435 0.562 0.531\
relative mobility increase Unemp 9mth+ / All Unemp\
young 0.114 0.173 0.136 0.185 0.148 0.143 0.176 0.124\
prime-aged 0.225 0.265 0.270 0.278 0.349 0.235 0.229 0.214\
Panel B: Overall mobility of different age groups (uncorrected for miscoding)\
young -all 0.593 0.583 0.598 0.443 0.571 0.393 0.424 0.350\
prime -all 0.495 0.485 0.518 0.344 0.497 0.303 0.327 0.238\
young -9+ months 0.642 0.647 0.655 0.511 0.663 0.432 0.485 0.393\
prime -9+ months 0.579 0.569 0.600 0.435 0.597 0.363 0.396 0.304\
Panel C: Regression, uncorrected, no demog, no time controls, no occ/ind controls\
prime-aged dum -0.1032*** -0.1031*** -0.0938*** -0.1006*** -0.0714*** -0.0891*** -0.0944*** -0.1087***\
(s.e.) (0.0092) (0.0091) (0.0077) (0.0091) (0.0094) (0.0088) (0.0089) (0.0084)\
Panel D: Regression, uncorrected, demog and time controls, no occ/ind controls\
prime-aged dum -0.1121*** -0.1077*** -0.1004*** -0.1038*** -0.0783*** -0.1001*** -0.1014*** -0.1002***\
(s.e.) (0.0093) (0.0093) (0.0078) (0.0093) (0.0095) (0.0089) (0.0090) (0.0085)\
Panel E: Regression, uncorrected, interactions with demog, time controls, and occ/ind controls\
prime-aged dum -0.1359*** -0.1188*** -0.1212*** -0.1454*** -0.1138*** -0.0846*** -0.0989*** -0.1043***\
(s.e.) (0.0164) (0.0168) (0.0143) (0.0163) (0.0165) (0.0153) (0.0159) (0.0155)\
gender*prm age 0.0252 0.0187 0.0354** 0.0356* 0.0420** -0.0055 -0.0015 -0.0126\
(s.e.) (0.0182) (0.0183) (0.0153) (0.0184) (0.0182) (0.0178) (0.0181) (0.0168)\
hs drop*prm age -0.0150 -0.0322 -0.0112 0.0180 -0.0046 -0.0251 -0.0209 -0.0145\
(s.e.) (0.0254) (0.0254) (0.0213) (0.0256) (0.0255) (0.0225) (0.0240) (0.0229)\
some col*prm age 0.0256 -0.0061 0.0200 0.0342 0.0281 0.0003 -0.0003 0.0171\
(s.e.) (0.0231) (0.0232) (0.0196) (0.0236) (0.0237) (0.0223) (0.0230) (0.0225)\
col grad*prm age 0.0267 0.0075 -0.0085 0.0348 0.0164 -0.0094 -0.0029 0.0668***\
(s.e.) (0.0266) (0.0268) (0.0220) (0.0268) (0.0266) (0.0267) (0.0269) (0.0221)\
black*prmage 0.0176 0.0091 0.0114 0.0412 0.0285 -0.0269 -0.0118 0.0012\
(s.e.) (0.0266) (0.0261) (0.0221) (0.0273) (0.0269) (0.0254) (0.0262) (0.0253)\
Panel F: Regression, uncorrected, no demog, no time and no occ/ind controls, interaction coeff dur and age\
dur*prm. age 0.0060* 0.0039 0.0073*** 0.0076** 0.0056 0.0053 0.0049 0.0060*\
(s.e.) (0.0034) (0.0034) (0.0023) (0.0035) (0.0035) (0.0035) (0.0035) (0.0033)\
Panel G: Regression, uncorrected, with demog, time and occ/ind controls, interaction coeff dur and age\
dur*prm. age 0.0048 0.0032 0.0066*** 0.0071** 0.0045 0.0051 0.0047 0.0073**\
(s.e.) (0.0033) (0.0033) (0.0022) (0.0035) (0.0034) (0.0034) (0.0034) (0.0033)\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
ference between the average occupational mobility rates of young and prime-aged\
workers.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst row of panel E reports the estimated coef\u64257 cient on the prime-age dummy\
when augmenting the regression underlying panel D with occupational/industry\
controls and interactions between gender, education and race with the prime-age\
dummy. In this case we \uc0\u64257 nd a slightly larger difference between the occupational\
mobility rates of young and prime-aged workers, with the exception of the task-\
based classi\uc0\u64257 cation. The remainder rows of panel E show the estimated coef\u64257 -\
cients of the interaction terms. The interaction terms allow us to investigate whether\
136\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 138 of 269]\
the lower occupational mobility rate of prime-aged workers can be explain by life-\
cycle shifts towards certain occupations, or is concentrated in certain demographic\
groups. Given the lack of statistical signi\uc0\u64257 cance of most of the coef\u64257 cients, we do\
not \uc0\u64257 nd strong evidence for either explanation.63\
Panels F and G consider the interaction between age and unemployment dura-\
tion. In panel F (G) we add an interaction term between the prime-aged dummy\
and unemployment duration to the regression underlying the estimates in panel C\
(E). In both cases, we observe that the point estimates indicate a steeper slope for\
prime-aged workers, as suggested by the last two rows of panel A. However, the\
estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cients are small and are not always statistically signi\u64257 cant.\
B.1.5 Occupation identities\
We now turn to investigate whether the aggregate mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le is driven\
by composition effects at the level of individual occupations. In particular, we want\
to know to what extent a subset of occupations is associated with high occupational\
mobility rates and longer non-employment durations, while another subset is as-\
sociated with lower mobility rates and shorter non-employment durations. If this\
were to be the case, one could potentially explain the aggregate mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le as a result of selection effects across occupations.\
Figures 32 and 33 (in Section 2) show the average gross occupational mobil-\
ity rates by major occupations and task-based occupations together with the cor-\
responding overall average occupational mobility rate. The height of each light\
colored bar corresponds to the average gross occupation(industry)-speci\uc0\u64257 c mobil-\
ity rate, while the width of each bar corresponds to the proportion of the in\uc0\u64258 ow into\
unemployment that originate from a given occupation (industry). The light colored\
horizontal line depicts the G-corrected occupational (industry) mobility rate.\
The graphs in Figure 32 show that across the vast majority of occupations (and\
industries) the extent of gross mobility is high. The G-corrected occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c\
mobility rate in nearly all occupations is either close or above 40%, covering over\
63An exception being for gender in the cases of \'91NUN\'92 spells, industry mobility and simultaneous\
occupation and industry mobility. Here we \uc0\u64257 nd a drop of 2 to 3 percentage points. Another exception\
is for college graduates in the case of the 3 task-based category classi\uc0\u64257 cation. Here all cognitive\
occupations are merged into one task-based group, limiting overall occupational mobility and its\
responsiveness of college graduates.\
137\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 139 of 269]\
80% of all unemployment spells. Figures 53a and 53b use the 2000 SOC and show\
that this feature is robust to whether we consider pure unemployment spells or\
\'91NUN\'92 spells. Figure 32c shows that this feature is also robust to using the 1990\
SOC instead of the 2000 SOC. Figure 32d shows that this feature is also found across\
major industries. In both industry and occupations, however, the main exception is\
\'93construction\'94, which exhibits a mobility rate of around 25%. Figure 33 shows that\
gross occupational mobility is also high and nearly identical across all task-based\
occupational categories.\
To analyse the impact of occupational identities on the slope of the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le, we estimate regressions of the general form:\
1occmob =b0+bduru.duration +boccocc.dum +bage(Quartic in Age ) +bdmdemog.ctrls +#,\
(R3)\
where \'93occ.dum\'94 denotes occupation identity dummies and the demographic con-\
trols include dummies for gender, education and race. If a subset of occupations\
are associated with higher (lower) mobility probabilities and if these probabilities\
are positively associated with longer (shorter) unemployment durations, the inclu-\
sion of occupation identity dummies will capture composition effects that could\
be driving the slope of the aggregate mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. We consider two\
cases when evaluating these occupation dummies: (i) source and (ii) destination\
occupations. The former are the occupations that were performed by workers im-\
mediately before becoming unemployed (non-employed), while the latter are the\
occupations to which workers got re-employed into. For comparability, panel A of\
Table 29 reports the estimated duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient based on regression (R2) without\
occupation identity dummies, as reported in the \uc0\u64257 rst row of panel C of Table 25. If\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant changes to the estimated value of the duration coef\u64257 cient, bdur, were ob-\
served when adding occupation identity dummies, this would suggest the presence\
of composition effects across occupations.\
Panel B reports the results from regression (R3) based on workers\'92 source occu-\
pations. By comparing the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cients of panels A and B, it is immediate\
that across all occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cations the slopes of the mobility-duration pro\u64257 le\
are hardly affected when adding source occupation \uc0\u64257 xed effects. The rest of the co-\
ef\uc0\u64257 cients in panel B show a similar pattern as the one reported in Table 25. Panel C\
138\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 140 of 269]\
Table 29: The role of individual occupations\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC NR/R-M/C NR/R-M/C* C/NRM/RM OCC*IND IND 2000 SOC-NUN\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
Panel A: baseline regression, with demog, time controls, but no occ/ind controls\
dur coef 0.0150*** 0.0156*** 0.0103*** 0.0112*** 0.0085*** 0.0123*** 0.0137*** 0.0145***\
(s.e.) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0016) (0.0016) (0.0010)\
Panel B: uncorrected, source occupation controls, time and demographic controls\
dur coef 0.0136*** 0.0145*** 0.0106*** 0.0113*** 0.0088*** 0.0109*** 0.0116*** 0.0136***\
(s.e.) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0016) (0.0015) (0.0010)\
female -0.0144 -0.0315*** 0.0042 -0.0059 -0.0286*** -0.0166* 0.0097 -0.0073\
(s.e.) (0.0094) (0.0092) (0.0091) (0.0088) (0.0081) (0.0098) (0.0091) (0.0079)\
hs drop -0.0311*** -0.0306*** -0.0386*** -0.0389*** -0.0426*** -0.0160 -0.0268** -0.0346***\
(s.e.) (0.0116) (0.0117) (0.0103) (0.0109) (0.0105) (0.0115) (0.0116) (0.0098)\
some col 0.0047 0.0014 0.0056 0.0097 -0.0159 0.0088 0.0314*** 0.0104\
(s.e.) (0.0107) (0.0107) (0.0103) (0.0106) (0.0102) (0.0107) (0.0106) (0.0091)\
col grad -0.0200 -0.0391*** -0.0692*** -0.0743*** -0.1219*** -0.0147 0.0078 -0.0166\
(s.e.) (0.0137) (0.0138) (0.0139) (0.0138) (0.0116) (0.0138) (0.0123) (0.0113)\
black 0.0299** 0.0116 0.0241** 0.0169 0.0362*** 0.0291** 0.0128 0.0240**\
(s.e.) (0.0123) (0.0120) (0.0118) (0.0120) (0.0116) (0.0124) (0.0123) (0.0102)\
time (qtr) 0.0011*** 0.0012*** 0.0008*** 0.0008*** 0.0009*** 0.0010*** 0.0012*** 0.0010***\
(s.e.) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002) (0.0002)\
Panel C: uncorrected, destination occupation controls, time and demographic controls\
dur coef 0.0137*** 0.0144*** 0.0103*** 0.0112*** 0.0088*** 0.0112*** 0.0117*** 0.0132***\
(s.e.) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0015) (0.0014) (0.0016) (0.0015) (0.0010)\
Panel D: F-test source occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c duration slopes (demog &time & source occ controls)\
p-value 0.545 0.77 0.494 0.679 0.85 0.913 0.808 0.188\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
reports the results from regression (R3) based on workers\'92 destination occupations.\
Note that the duration coef\uc0\u64257 cients remain virtually identical to the case in which we\
use source occupation instead. This suggests that the aggregate mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le does not seem to be a result of selection, whereby those occupations with\
high gross occupational \uc0\u64258 ows are also associated with long unemployment dura-\
tions.\
Panel D further investigates whether the slopes of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les\
are different across source occupations. It reports the results of testing whether the\
implied slopes of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les across source occupations are equal.\
Using an F-test, we cannot reject the hypothesis that all slopes are equal, with high\
p-values in many cases.64Although not shown here, we also tested whether the\
semi-elasticity of the relative increase in occupational mobility associated with a one-\
month higher duration is equal across occupations. Once again we \uc0\u64257 nd that we\
cannot reject the hypothesis that they are equal across occupations and this result\
64The somewhat lower p-value for the \'91NUN\'92 measure (0.25) is driven by women in the educa-\
tion/library occupational category. Excluding this occupation yields a p-value for equality of slopes\
in all remaining occupations of 0.66.\
139\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 141 of 269]\
holds for all classi\uc0\u64257 cations and samples used in Table 29.\
B.2 Excess and net occupational mobility\
In this section we show that excess occupational mobility accounts for the vast ma-\
jority of the gross mobility documented in Section 1 and is the main driver of the\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. We also show that although the extent of net mobility is\
small compared to the extent of gross mobility or the overall amount of unemploy-\
ment spells, it exhibits a well de\uc0\u64257 ned pattern. Consistent with the job polarization\
literature we observe that during the 1983-2013 period routine manual occupations\
have experienced net out\uc0\u64258 ows, while non-routine manual occupations have expe-\
rienced net in\uc0\u64258 ows. At the same time we \u64257 nd that routine cognitive occupations\
have experienced net in\uc0\u64258 ows, while non-routine cognitive occupations have expe-\
rienced net out\uc0\u64258 ows. We document the importance of \'93management\'94 occupations\
in driving the net mobility patterns within the set of cognitive occupations.\
B.2.1 Net and gross \uc0\u64258 ows per occupation\
Figure 32 depicts the G-corrected gross and net occupational mobility per individual\
major occupation and industry. The width of each bar corresponds to the proportion\
of workers\'92 unemployment spells that originate from a given occupation (industry)\
among all workers\'92 unemployment spells in our sample. The height of each light\
colored bar corresponds to the proportion of workers\'92 unemployment spells that\
originate from a given occupation and that end with an occupational change. That\
is, the height of each light colored bar measures the occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c gross mo-\
bility rate. On the other hand, the height of each dark colored bar corresponds to the\
proportion of the workers\'92 unemployment spells that originate from a given occu-\
pation that cover the total net \uc0\u64258 ows from that occupation. A positive value for the\
height of a dark colored bar refers to in\uc0\u64258 ows, while a negative value refers to out-\
\uc0\u64258 ows. The area of each light (dark) colored bar then gives the occupation-speci\u64257 c\
gross (net) \uc0\u64258 ows as a proportion of all workers unemployment spells. It is impor-\
tant to note that a net \uc0\u64258 ow appears twice on the graph, once as an out\u64258 ow and then\
as an in\uc0\u64258 ow. It is also important to note that because the SIPP has a longitudinal\
140\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 142 of 269]\
Life/Phys/Soc ScienceComm/SocServPers. Care ServicesManagement\
Protective Serv.Bus & Fin Ops. SalesBuilding Serv.Food prep/serv Arts, Entrtmnt, SportsHealthcare support Production OccRepair/Maint./Install Admin Support Transport Occ Comp/Math OccLegal OccEducation\
Health Pract.Architct/EngineeringConstruction-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
Mean Gross Occ. Mobility Gross Mob. p.Occ:  NRC NRM RC RM RM/NRM\
Mean Net Occ. Mobility Net Mob. p.Occ:  NRC NRM RC RM RM/NRM\
Mean Net Occ Mob, excl. Mgt(a) Major Occupational Groups (2000 SOC) - Unemployed\
Life/Phys/Soc Science\
Pers. Care ServicesComm/SocServ ManagementProtective Serv. SalesBuilding Serv. Arts, Entrtmnt, SportsBus & Fin Ops.Food prep/serv Healthcare supportProduction Occ Repair/Maint./InstallLegal Occ Transport Occ Admin SupportComp/Math OccEducation\
Architct/EngineeringConstruction\
Health Pract.-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
(b) Major Occupational Groups (2000 SOC) - \'91NUN\'92\
sales occ. managing occupationsprecision production\
machine operators/assemblers\
admin support mechanics and repairerstechnicians and rel support services transportation and materials movingprofessional speciality\
construction and extractive-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
(c) Major Occupational Groups (1990 SOC) - Unemployed\
whsale dur.\
public adminwhsale nondur.FIREMiningPers. Serv.Bus&Rep Serv E'tmnt&Rec TCU Nondur Manfct Dur Manfct\
retail\
Prof Serv\
Construction-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
Mean Gross ind_mw. Mobility Gross Mob. p.Occ:  Mining Manf+Constr Sales Serv.\
Mean Net ind_mw. Mobility Net Mob. p.Occ:  Mining Manf+Constr Sales Serv.\
(d) Major Industry Groups - Unemployed\
Figure 32: Net and Gross Mobility per Occupation (Industry)\
141\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 143 of 269]\
dimension a workers may have more than one unemployment spell in which he\
ends up changing occupation. This is the reason why we describe our measures of\
mobility based workers\'92 unemployment spells. Total net \uc0\u64258 ows are then obtained\
as the absolute value of the sum of all occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c out\u64258 ows, or the sum of\
all occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c in\u64258 ows, or the absolute value of the sum of both divided by\
two. Total gross \uc0\u64258 ows are obtained as the sum of all occupation-speci\u64257 c gross \u64258 ows.\
The dashed lines depict total net \uc0\u64258 ows as a proportion of all unemployment spells.\
The light colored line depicts the average gross occupational mobility rate.\
It is evident that total gross \uc0\u64258 ows are much larger than total net \u64258 ows. Using the\
2000 SOC, for example, the proportion of all workers unemployment spells in our\
sample that cover total net \uc0\u64258 ows is just 4.2%, while the proportion of all workers\'92\
unemployment spells in our sample that cover total gross \uc0\u64258 ows is 44.4% (see Table\
25). The proportion of all gross occupational \uc0\u64258 ows that are necessary to generate\
the observe net \uc0\u64258 ows between major occupations is then 9.5%. When considering\
\'93NUN\'94 spells the proportion of all workers\'92 unemployment spells that cover total\
net \uc0\u64258 ows is 4.1%, while the proportion of total gross \u64258 ows is 9.1%. Using the 1990\
SOC and considering unemployment spells we \uc0\u64257 nd that these proportions hardly\
change: 4% and 9.9%, respectively. We \uc0\u64257 nd that when considering industry mobility\
these proportions are even smaller: 3.4% and 7%, respectively. Taken together this\
evidence implies that about 95% of workers\'92 unemployment spells and about 90%\
of all gross occupational \uc0\u64258 ows are driven by excess mobility.65\
It is also evident that the importance of excess relative to net mobility occurs\
across nearly all major occupations (industries). The main exception to this pat-\
tern is \'93management\'94. This is clearest when using the 2000 SOC. Figures 53a and\
53b show that the proportion of workers\'92 unemployment spells that originate from\
\'93management\'94 that cover the total net \uc0\u64258 ows of that occupation is around 40%. The\
latter re\uc0\u64258 ects two underlying forces. (i) A high out\u64258 ow rate: around 62% of workers\
who lose their jobs as managers change occupation after their unemployment (non-\
employment) spell, where the majority of the \'93management\'94 out\uc0\u64258 ows end up in\
\'93sales and related occupations\'94 (22.1%), \'93of\uc0\u64257 ce and admin support\'94 (19.9%), \'93busi-\
65The overwhelming importance of excess relative to net mobility we document is consistent with\
the results of Murphy and Topel (1987), Jovanovic and Mof\uc0\u64257 tt (1990) and Kambourov and Manovskii\
(2008), who obtained large differences between excess and net mobility on pooled samples of em-\
ployer movers and stayers.\
142\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 144 of 269]\
ness and \uc0\u64257 nancial operators\'94 (13%) and \'93food preparation/serving\'94 (12.7%). (ii) A\
very small in\uc0\u64258 ow rate: very few unemployed workers from other major occupa-\
tions obtain jobs as managers at re-employment. We \uc0\u64257 nd that less than 1% of all\
unemployment spells end up in non-managers becoming managers. Excluding all\
\uc0\u64258 ows involving \'93management\'94 (7% of all workers\'92 unemployment spells) implies\
that now 2.6% (instead of 4.2%) of all unemployment spells and 6.1% (instead of\
9.5%) of all gross occupational \uc0\u64258 ows are needed to generate the observed net \u64258 ows\
among the remainder occupations.66\
RC NRCNRMRM-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
Mean Gross Mobility Gross Mob. p.Occ:  NRC RC NRM RM\
Mean Net Mobility Net Mob. p.Occ:  NRC RC NRM RM\
(a) RM/NRM/RC/NRC incl. Management\
RCNRM NRC RM-.4 -.2 0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1Occupational Mobility Rate\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Occupational composition of unemployment spells (in pp)\
Mean Gross Mobility Gross Mob. p.Occ:  NRC RC NRM RM\
Mean Net Mobility Net Mob. p.Occ:  NRC RC NRM RM (b) RM/NRM/RC/NRC excl. Management\
Figure 33: Net and Gross Mobility per Occupation Task-based Categories\
Figure 33 presents the same information as Figure 32, but when aggregating the\
major occupational groups into task-based categories. The left panel includes \'93man-\
agement\'94, while the right panel excludes it. Once again we \uc0\u64257 nd an overwhelming\
importance of excess mobility relative to net mobility. When including \'93manage-\
ment\'94 net mobility can be covered by 3.7% of all unemployment spells and 12.4%\
of all gross \uc0\u64258 ows across the four task-based occupational groups. When excluding\
workers with employment in \'93management\'94 before or after unemployment, net\
mobility can be covered by 2.1% of all remaining unemployment spells, which is\
7.4% of all grows \uc0\u64258 ows in this set.\
Even though net mobility is small, we \uc0\u64257 nd clear patterns among the net \u64258 ows\
across these task-based categories. In particular, Figure 33 shows that during the\
66Using the 1990 SOC we obtain a lower net mobility rate because in this categorisation \'93manage-\
ment\'94 includes the 2000 SOC \'93management\'94 and \'93business and \uc0\u64257 nancial operators\'94 occupations.\
Also note that in the 1990 SOC both \'93transportation\'94 and \'93helpers/laborers\'94 are in purple, re\uc0\u64258 ect-\
ing that the average routine intensity score of \'93helpers/laborers\'94 is also low (see Section A.1).\
143\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 145 of 269]\
1983-2013 period more workers left jobs in routine manual occupations than took\
up jobs in these occupations. It also shows that more workers took up jobs in non-\
routine manual occupations than left these occupations. There is also a clear pattern\
in the net \uc0\u64258 ows of non-routine cognitive and routine cognitive occupations. Figure\
33a shows that the non-routine cognitive occupations experienced net out\uc0\u64258 ows. It\
is immediate from comparing Figures 33a and 33b that the vast majority of the net\
out\uc0\u64258 ows from the non-routine cognitive occupations come from \'93management\'94. At\
the same time, Figure 33a shows that the routine cognitive occupations experience\
net in\uc0\u64258 ows. As suggested by Figure 33b by far the main contributor to these net\
in\uc0\u64258 ows is \'93management\'94. We observe that by excluding the \'93management\'94 \u64258 ows\
the net in\uc0\u64258 ow into the routine cognitive category basically disappears.\
Taken together this evidence suggests that the net mobility that occurs through\
unemployment or non-employment spells across task-based categories is best un-\
derstood through the manual versus cognitive dimensions. Within the manual set\
of occupations there is clear evidence of job polarization: routine jobs are disappear-\
ing while non-routine jobs are on the rise. Within the cognitive set of occupations\
job polarization is not so evident. Instead we observe that much of the net \uc0\u64258 ows\
that arise between non-routine cognitive and routine cognitive occupations take the\
form of managers losing their jobs and then re-gaining employment as sales or of-\
\uc0\u64257 ce/administrative support workers. This type of mobility does not seem much re-\
lated to structural change, but suggests a picture in which workers in higher skilled\
jobs move down their career ladder to perform less skilled jobs after experiencing\
job loss.\
B.2.2 Mobility - duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
We now turn to show that excess mobility is also the main driver of the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Figure 34a depicts the G-corrected mobility-duration pro\u64257 le based\
on the major occupational groups of the 2000 SOC (as in Figure 26a in Section A)\
and subdivides the area below it into the contribution of net and excess mobility.\
Recall that for a given unemployment duration x, the pro\uc0\u64257 le shows the gross occu-\
pational mobility rate as the fraction of workers who had at least xmonths in un-\
employment and changed occupation at re-employment among those workers who\
144\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 146 of 269]\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Residual Net Mobility, incl. Mgt\
Net mobility excl. Mgt (smoothed) Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells)(a) Major Occupational Groups (2000 SOC) - Un-\
employed\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Residual Net Mobility, incl. Mgt\
Net mobility excl. Mgt (smoothed) Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells)(b) Major Occupational Groups (2000 SOC) -\
\'91NUN\'92\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Residual Net Mobility, incl. Mgt\
Net mobility excl. Mgt (smoothed) Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells)\
(c) Major Occupational Groups (1990 SOC) - Un-\
employed\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4 .5 .6 .7Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Net Mobility\
Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells)(d) Major Industry Groups - Unemployed\
Figure 34: The importance of excess and net mobility\
had at least xmonths in unemployment before regaining employment. To compute\
the net and excess mobility rate for a given unemployment duration, we only use\
those employment-unemployment-employment spells that had at least xmonths in\
unemployment.\
The area immediately below the pro\uc0\u64257 le show the contribution of total net mo-\
bility at each unemployment duration. This area is further subdivided into the con-\
tribution that corresponds to the \'93management\'94 \uc0\u64258 ows and to the contribution that\
corresponds to the \uc0\u64258 ows of the remainder occupations. The area below net mobility\
show the contribution of excess mobility at each unemployment duration. The hori-\
zontal dashed line crossing this area shows the average excess occupational mobility\
rate. The rest of the graphs in Figure 34 depicts the same information, but instead\
145\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 147 of 269]\
consider occupational mobility through non-employment spells with at least one\
period of unemployment (\'92NUN\'92 spells), occupational mobility using the 1990 SOC\
and industry mobility. It is immediate from these graphs that excess mobility is the\
largest component of gross mobility at all unemployment (non-employment) du-\
rations. Further, the importance of excess mobility increases with unemployment\
(non-employment) duration. At the same time we observe that the importance of\
net mobility also increases with unemployment (non-employment) duration, par-\
ticularly the net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows that corresponds to the non-\'93management\'94 occupa-\
tions.\
Figure 35a present the same information as above but now aggregating occupa-\
tions using a task-based classi\uc0\u64257 cation. Figure 35b presents a very similar pattern\
as in Figure 35a, but now aggregating non-routine cognitive and routine cognitive\
into one category to subsume the \'93management\'94 \uc0\u64258 ows into one (larger) cognitive\
category. Once again we observe the importance of excess mobility in shaping the\
mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le.\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4 .5Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Residual Net Mobility, incl. Mgt\
Net mobility excl. Mgt (smoothed) Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells)\
(a) RM/NRM/RC/NRC\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4Proportion Moving Occupation\
Upon Exit U\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Length of (Incomplete) Unemployment Spell Excess Reallocation (smoothed) Residual Net Mobility, incl. Mgt\
Net mobility excl. Mgt (smoothed) Overall Excess Realloc. (All spells) (b) RM/NRM/C\
Figure 35: The importance of excess and net mobility - Task based categorisation\
B.3 Cyclical patterns of occupational mobility\
In Section 2 of the paper we document the cyclical patterns of occupational mobil-\
ity for those workers who changed employers through intervening unemployment\
(non-employment) spells. Here we investigate in more detail these cyclical patterns.\
146\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 148 of 269]\
Below we return to these patterns using the CPS and PSID.\
B.3.1 Cyclical responsiveness of gross occupational mobility\
Figure 36 displays the time series of the G-corrected and uncorrected occupational\
(industry) mobility rates of unemployed workers, together with that of the aggre-\
gate unemployment rate, in level deviations from their respective linear trends to\
\uc0\u64257 rst investigate the cyclical behaviour of the series with any formal \u64257 ltering method.\
Figure 36a displays these patterns using the major occupational groups of the 2000\
SOC, while Figure 36b displays these patterns using the 4 task-based categories:\
Non-routine cognitive, routine cognitive, non-routine manual and routine manual.\
The markers in the graphs depict the 5-quarter centered moving averages of the\
time series, while the curves around these markers smooth the averages locally. The\
key message from both graphs is that gross occupational mobility among unem-\
ployed workers is procyclical . When comparing the linearly de-trended time series\
of the centered 5-quarter moving average of the (log) occupation mobility rate with\
that of the (log) unemployment rate, we \uc0\u64257 nd correlations of -0.62 and -0.47 for the\
2000 SOC and the 4 task-based categories classi\uc0\u64257 cation, respectively.67Figure 36c\
shows that the procyclicality of occupational mobility among the unemployed is\
also present when using the 1990 SOC. Differences in the cyclical patterns between\
the 2000 SOC and 1990 SOC appear to be of second order. If anything, occupational\
mobility seems somewhat more cyclically responsive when using the 1990 SOC. Fig-\
ure 36d further shows the cyclical patterns of industry mobility. It shows that the\
67Observations at the end of de-trended time series are estimated more imprecisely than those in\
the middle. For this reason, bandpass \uc0\u64257 ltering typically excludes those observations. If we restrict\
our attention to the time series window for which we would have bandpass de-trended observations,\
1988q3 - 2010q1, the aforementioned correlations rise to (in absolute value) -0.82 for the case of the\
2000 SOC and -0.80 for the 4 task-based categories. Restricting the sample to this window does not\
change any of our conclusions. In particular, all empirical mobility elasticities from the linearly de-\
trended series stay signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 1%. For the HP \u64257 ltered series, conclusions also carry over, with\
the restriction sharpening the pro-cyclicality of occupational mobility across the 4 task-based groups,\
while blunting somewhat the cyclicality of industry mobility (see below). An exercise in which we\
directly use each individual quarterly observation, which are much noisier (for example, there are\
quarters in the data in which relatively few unemployed workers are hired), also yields broadly\
similar results in these restricted window. While in this case correlations drop to around (-0.50,-\
0.30) when linearly de-trended and around (-0.30,-0.10) when HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered, all linear de-trended series\
discussed in this section stay statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cantly procyclical (with respect to unemployment) at\
the 1%. Further, the elasticities of the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered procyclical series of occupational mobility with\
respect to HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment show procyclicality and still reach signi\u64257 cance at the 5% level\
(1990 and 2000 SOC), and 10% (4 task-based categories), within the 1988q3-2010q1 window.\
147\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 149 of 269]\
gross industry mobility rate among the unemployed is also procyclical, exhibiting a\
correlation of -0.56 between the linear de-trended industry mobility and unemploy-\
ment rates.\
-.06 -.03 0 .03 .06\
 Occupational Mobility of Hires from U\
(deviations from linear trend)-2 0 2 4Unemployment Rate (Percentage)\
(deviations from linear trend)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1\
Quarter\
2000 classification - corrected uncorrected \
Unemployment Rate \
(a) 2000 SOC\
-.06 -.03 0 .03 .06\
 Occupational Mobility of Hires from U\
(deviations from linear trend)-2 0 2 4Unemployment Rate (Percentage)\
(deviations from linear trend)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1\
Quarter\
4 task-based cat. - corrected uncorrected \
Unemployment Rate (b) 4 task-based categories\
-.06 -.03 0 .03 .06\
 Occupational Mobility of Hires from U\
(deviations from linear trend)-2 0 2 4Unemployment Rate (Percentage)\
(deviations from linear trend)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1\
Quarter\
1990 classification - corrected uncorrected \
Unemployment Rate \
(c) 1990 SOC\
-.06 -.03 0 .03 .06\
 Occupational Mobility of Hires from U\
(deviations from linear trend)-2 0 2 4Unemployment Rate (Percentage)\
(deviations from linear trend)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1\
Quarter\
Industry (1990 SIC) - corrected uncorrected \
Unemployment Rate (d) Industry (1990 SIC)\
Figure 36: Occupational Mobility of the Unemployed\
Panel A of Table 30 reports the OLS elasticities and correlation coef\uc0\u64257 cients of the\
5-quarter centered moving average of the (log) occupational mobility rate relative\
to the 5-quarter centered moving average of the (log) unemployment rate. Panel B\
present the same statistics using instead (log) productivity. In both cases we per-\
form the analysis using either the corresponding linearly de-trended or HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered\
series for the 1985q3-2013q1 period. Given the gaps in the SIPP before implement-\
ing the HP-\uc0\u64257 lter we interpolate the data, but then drop the interpolated observations\
from the resulting series to estimate the regressions.68In the main text we have also\
68While we do not use any interpolated quarters for the calculation of correlations and estimation\
148\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 150 of 269]\
Table 30: Cyclicality Occupational Mobility Using Unemployment Spells\
5Q MA G-CORRECTED 5Q MA UNCORRECTED\
linear de-trend HP 1600 linear de-trend HP 1600\
Category elasticity r elasticity r elasticity r elasticity r\
Panel A. Mobility wrt Unemployment\
2000 SOC -0.19*** -0.62 -0.17*** -0.38 -0.12*** -0.63 -0.10*** -0.36\
(0.03) (0.06) (0.02) (0.03)\
1990 SOC -0.24*** -0.51 -0.19*** -0.34 -0.15*** -0.58 -0.12*** -0.40\
(0.06) (0.07) (0.03) (0.04)\
4 task-based categories -0.20*** -0.47 -0.08 -0.11 -0.14*** -0.49 -0.05 -0.12\
(0.05) (0.09) (0.03) (0.06)\
4 task-based cat. (Excl. Manag.) -0.23*** -0.50 -0.21** -0.29 -0.16*** -0.52 -0.13** -0.29\
(0.05) (0.09) (0.03) (0.06)\
Industries (1990 SIC) -0.16*** -0.56 -0.15** -0.33 -0.13*** -0.58 -0.12** -0.32\
(0.03) (0.06) (0.02) (0.05)\
Panel B. Mobility wrt Productivity\
2000 SOC 3.08*** 0.73 2.20** 0.28 1.86*** 0.72 1.20* 0.25\
(0.38) (1.01) (0.24) (0.63)\
1990 SOC 4.81*** 0.73 1.45 0.15 2.64*** 0.75 0.89 0.17\
(0.60) (1.27) (0.32) (0.68)\
4 task-based categories 4.06*** 0.68 3.85** 0.33 2.55*** 0.67 2.25** 0.29\
(0.58) (1.48) (0.38) (0.98)\
4 task-based cat. (Excl. Manag.) 4.37*** 0.68 4.38*** 0.35 2.85*** 0.69 2.66** 0.33\
(0.63) (1.58) (0.40) (1.00)\
Industries (1990 SIC) 1.73*** 0.46 -0.31 -0.04 1.36*** 0.46 -0.27 -0.04\
(0.45) (1.08) (0.35) (0.84)\
Panel C. Unemployment wrt Productivity\
Unemployment -8.72*** -0.64 -4.44* -0.25 -8.72*** -0.64 -4.44* -0.25\
(1.41) (2.25) (1.41) (2.25)\
N(quarters) 58 58 58 58\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
shown evidence suggesting that the gaps in the SIPP series no do meaningfully af-\
fect the degree of procyclicality. This is done using the CPS (see Section 5, below) as\
an alternative data source and comparing the SIPP and CPS uncorrected series and\
estimated elasticities with respect to unemployment. The \uc0\u64257 rst four columns report\
the results for the G-corrected mobility series and the last four columns for the un-\
corrected series. The results in panel A con\uc0\u64257 rm the conclusion obtained from Figure\
36: gross occupational mobility of the unemployed is procyclical. For all linearly de-\
of elasticities, the HP-trend can only be obtained using interpolated time series. This likely intro-\
duces some further noise for those quarters adjacent to interpolated quarters. On the other hand,\
including interpolated quarters in the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered time series allows some further information that\
is contained in the linearly de-trended time series to weigh in the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series as well. Indeed,\
including interpolated quarters in our calculation appears to strengthen the statistical signi\uc0\u64257 cance of\
our coef\uc0\u64257 cients. To conservatively minimize the impact of interpolation, we focus on the statistics\
excluding any interpolated quarters. In contrast, the linearly de-trended series are derived without\
restoring to interpolation.\
149\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 151 of 269]\
trended series, the correlations are substantially negative and the elasticities are sta-\
tistically signi\uc0\u64257 cantly negative at a 1% level. HP-\u64257 ltering leads to lower correlations\
because unemployment and productivity are less aligned (see panel C of the table)\
and the relative impact of noise is higher after HP-\uc0\u64257 ltering. Nevertheless, using the\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series yields elasticities with respect to the unemployment rate that are\
signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 5% level, with the exception of the 4 task-based categories. The\
latter appears to be driven in part by the mobility patterns of those workers in man-\
agerial occupations. As we highlighted before, management occupations behave\
differently throughout the entire sample period, with consistently large relative net\
out\uc0\u64258 ow. Excluding those unemployment spells that are related to managerial occu-\
pations results once again in a statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant procyclical series when using\
the 4 task-based categories.\
Panel B shows that gross occupational mobility through unemployment is also\
procyclical when using (log) productivity instead of (log) unemployment rate. For\
the linearly de-trended series, the correlations are again high (around 0.70) and the\
empirical elasticities are positive and signi\uc0\u64257 cant at a 1% level. Although the HP-\
\uc0\u64257 ltered series are more noisy, they still yield statistically signi\u64257 cantly positive elas-\
ticities at a 5% level for the 2000 SOC and 4 task-based categories series; and at a\
1% level when considering the 4 task-based categories series without managerial\
occupations. In the case of mobility across industries, we also \uc0\u64257 nd positive and sta-\
tistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant elasticities with respect to labor productivity. In terms of the\
correlation coef\uc0\u64257 cients we \u64257 nd that these are positive with respect to the linearly\
de-trended productivity, but is nearly zero in the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series.69\
Note that across panels A and B all elasticities are higher for the G-corrected\
series than for the uncorrected series, illustrating that miscoding reduces the cyclical\
response of gross occupational mobility.70\
69One reason is that the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered productivity series peaks around 2005, at which time industry\
mobility of the unemployed is high compared to the average level, but at the same time somewhat\
lower than in the earlier 2000s. The HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series weighs the latter more heavily. Further, while\
industry mobility subsequently meaningfully dropped in the Great Recession, it recovered at a rate\
mirroring the recovery of unemployment. In contrast, HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered productivity dropped sharply at\
the beginning of the Great Recession, but also recovered relatively sharply before the beginning of\
2010. This behavior is partly behind the relatively low correlation between productivity and unem-\
ployment as well. Interestingly, the correlations between mobility and unemployment, and between\
mobility and output typically are at the same level, and at times even stronger, than the correlation\
between output and unemployment for the main occupational mobility series.\
70A further exercise, in which we reduced the impact of noise (and very high frequency move-\
150\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 152 of 269]\
Table 31: Cyclicality Occupational Mobility Using NUN Spells\
5Q MA G-CORRECTED 5Q MA UNCORRECTED\
linearly de-trend HP 1600 linearly de-trend HP 1600\
Category elasticity r elasticity r elasticity r elasticity r\
Mobility across NUN-spells, wrt Unemployment Rate\
2000 SOC -0.14*** -0.73 -0.13*** -0.43 -0.09*** -0.73 -0.08*** -0.42\
(0.02) (0.04) (0.01) (0.02)\
1990 SOC -0.17*** -0.60 -0.16*** -0.35 -0.11*** -0.67 -0.11*** -0.42\
(0.03) (0.06) (0.02) (0.03)\
4 task-based categories -0.11*** -0.38 -0.00 -0.01 -0.08*** -0.43 -0.02 -0.07\
(0.04) (0.07) (0.02) (0.04)\
4 task-based cat. (Excl. Manag.) -0.14*** -0.48 -0.08 -0.21 -0.10*** -0.53 -0.06* -0.23\
(0.03) (0.05) (0.02) (0.04)\
Industries (1990 SIC) -0.16*** -0.72 -0.21*** -0.55 -0.13*** -0.72 -0.16*** -0.53\
(0.02) (0.04) (0.02) (0.03)\
N(quarters) 58 58 58 58\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
Cyclical responsiveness using non-employment spells To complement the\
above analysis, Table 31 considers the cyclical behavior of occupational mobility\
among those workers who mixed periods of unemployment with periods of out-of-\
labor-force during their non-employment spells (NUN-spells). In this case we also\
\uc0\u64257 nd that occupational and industry mobility are procyclical. Point estimates of the\
elasticities of occupational mobility with respect to unemployment are somewhat\
lower when using NUN spells rather than pure unemployment spells, but generally\
these differences are not statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant. Point estimates of the procyclical re-\
sponsiveness of industrial mobility are instead higher. The linearly de-trended data\
once again yield statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant procyclicality at the 1% level across all mo-\
bility measures. The HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered series also yields similar results when considering\
mobility across major occupational groups (both 1990 and 2000 classi\uc0\u64257 cation) and\
industry mobility. However, the pattern is statistically weaker for mobility across\
the 4 task-based categories, but still marginally signi\uc0\u64257 cant (at the 10% level) in the\
uncorrected data when managers are excluded.\
ments), by isolating (using TRAMO/SEATS) the trend-cycle component, yields similar results. As a\
consequence of the reduction in noise, standard errors are much smaller, and more of the elasticities\
are signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 1% level.\
151\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 153 of 269]\
Table 32: Cyclicality of Mobility at Different Moments of the Unemployment Spell\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC 2000 SOC-NUN OCC*IND IND NR/R-M/C C/NRM/RM\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)\
Panel 1. Regression of Individual Mobility on Linearly De-trended Unemployment Rate\
1(a) unemployment in quarter of hiring\
U hiring -0.0788*** -0.0890*** -0.0583*** -0.0606*** -0.0952*** -0.0575*** -0.0589***\
(s.e.) (0.0180) (0.0211) (0.0153) (0.0192) (0.0219) (0.0192) (0.0191)\
1(b) unemployment in quarter of separation\
U sep -0.0628*** -0.0691*** -0.0536** -0.0420* -0.0586** -0.0700*** -0.0659***\
(s.e.) (0.0211) (0.0239) (0.0206) (0.0249) (0.0256) (0.0211) (0.0202)\
1(c) unemployment at hiring and at separation averaged\
U ave -0.0868*** -0.0969*** -0.0704*** -0.0630*** -0.0946*** -0.0776*** -0.0758***\
(s.e.) (0.0218) (0.0259) (0.0204) (0.0239) (0.0247) (0.0231) (0.0222)\
1(d) unemployment at moment of hiring & separation\
U. hiring -0.0676*** -0.0782*** -0.0429** -0.0583** -0.0996*** -0.0241 -0.0306\
(s.e.) (0.0236) (0.0253) (0.0204) (0.0265) (0.0316) (0.0242) (0.0256)\
U sep. -0.0182 -0.0175 -0.0271 -0.0037 0.0071 -0.0540** -0.0456*\
(s.e.) (0.0277) (0.0293) (0.0268) (0.0334) (0.0352) (0.0261) (0.0267)\
Panel 2. Regression of Individual Mobility on HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Unemployment Rate\
2(a) unemployment in quarter of hiring\
U hiring -0.1594*** -0.1768*** -0.1182*** -0.1198** -0.2092*** -0.0840** -0.0959**\
(s.e.) (0.0420) (0.0449) (0.0366) (0.0458) (0.0543) (0.0408) (0.0419)\
2(b) unemployment in quarter of separation\
U sep -0.0916* -0.0943* -0.1017** -0.0628 -0.1015 -0.1292*** -0.1238***\
(s.e.) (0.0479) (0.0505) (0.0455) (0.0535) (0.0633) (0.0402) (0.0406)\
2(c) unemployment at hiring and at separation averaged\
U ave -0.2187*** -0.2358*** -0.2078*** -0.1588** -0.2697*** -0.1895*** -0.1938***\
(s.e.) (0.0590) (0.0677) (0.0601) (0.0635) (0.0685) (0.0563) (0.0547)\
2(d) unemployment at moment of hiring & separation\
U. hiring -0.1492*** -0.1666*** -0.1127*** -0.1130** -0.1985*** -0.0671 -0.0794*\
(s.e.) (0.0437) (0.0460) (0.0387) (0.0483) (0.0579) (0.0439) (0.0451)\
U sep. -0.0723 -0.0727 -0.0960** -0.0482 -0.0756 -0.1205*** -0.1132***\
(s.e.) (0.0467) (0.0503) (0.0458) (0.0521) (0.0575) (0.0400) (0.0406)\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
Cyclical responsiveness at different moments of the unemployment spell The\
preceding analysis documents the procyclicality of occupational (industry) mobility,\
measuring the state of the economy at the end of the unemployment spell; i.e. at the\
time of job \uc0\u64257 nding. Table 32 investigates whether this result survives when instead\
we measure the unemployment rate at the beginning of the worker\'92s unemploy-\
ment spell (at the time of job separation) or use the average of the unemployment\
rates at job separation or job \uc0\u64257 nding. The \u64257 rst panel considers the case in which we\
use the linearly de-trended (log) unemployment rate as our cyclical measure and\
reports estimates of a regression incorporating a linear time trend and a dummy\
variable for the change of occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cation at the 2004 panel. The main\
message from the \uc0\u64257 rst two rows is that measuring the unemployment rate at the\
152\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 154 of 269]\
moment of job separation or job \uc0\u64257 nding does not affect our conclusions. In both\
cases we \uc0\u64257 nd that the occupational (industry) mobility of unemployed workers is\
procyclical. Note that the point estimates obtained in the \uc0\u64257 rst \u64257 ve columns decrease\
when measuring the unemployment rate at the moment of job separation. How-\
ever this decrease is not meaningful and the point estimates remain statistically sig-\
ni\uc0\u64257 cant. Taking the average of the unemployment rates at job separation and job\
\uc0\u64257 nding yields the highest empirical responsiveness in the point estimates, with sig-\
ni\uc0\u64257 cance at the 1% across all columns. Further, including both the unemployment\
rate at job separation and at job \uc0\u64257 nding, the point estimates reveal an additional\
negative impact on mobility when unemployment rates are high both at the time of\
job separation and job \uc0\u64257 nding (and, in practice, in between), but this impact is not\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant.\
In the second panel of Table 32 we relate occupational (industry) mobility to the\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rate, measured again at the time of job separation\
or of job \uc0\u64257 nding. Here we also observe that occupational (industry) mobility re-\
mains procyclical. However, we observe a meaningful drop in the responsiveness\
of occupational mobility with respect to the unemployment rate when using the\
2000 SOC and 1990 SOC and in the case of industry mobility. As in the previous\
case, the clearest response is obtained when we use the average HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unem-\
ployment at the begin and end of the spell, with statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant coef\u64257 cients\
at the 1% level. When including both HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment rates, although\
measured imprecisely, the impact of higher unemployment rate at the end of the\
spell, ceteris paribus, is additionally negative (and not economically insigni\uc0\u64257 cant)\
for mobility. For mobility across the 4 task-based categories, this impact is at least\
marginally signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 10% level, while for those NUN spells it is signi\u64257 cant\
at the 5% level.\
The above results then suggest that our benchmark analysis is conservative in\
that we have not selected the timing of unemployment to maximize the cyclical\
responsiveness of the occupational mobility rate among unemployed workers.\
Cyclical responsiveness when controlling for demographic characteristics and\
occupational identities Next we investigate whether the cyclical behavior of occu-\
pational mobility among the unemployed is affected by demographic characteristics\
153\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 155 of 269]\
and/or the possible effects of source or destination occupations. Panels A and B of\
Table 33 consider regressions of the form of the form\
1occmob =b0+b1Cyclical Variable +Controls +#, (R1)\
where as the cyclical variable we use either the linearly de-trended (log) unemploy-\
ment rate and on the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rate. Each panel is divided\
into a number of sub-panels that present different set of controls. In the \uc0\u64257 rst sub-\
panel we consider a regression relating the uncorrected mobility to the relevant\
cyclical variable, a linear time trend, and a dummy for 2000 SOC (implemented\
in the 2004 and 2008 panels).71In the second sub-panel we add demographic con-\
trols to the previous regression, while in the third sub-panel we further add source\
occupation dummy variables. In the fourth sub-panel we further control for des-\
tination occupation dummy variables instead of controlling for source occupation.\
Column (i) considers the 2000 SOC, column (ii) the 1990 SOC, while column (iv)\
considers simultaneous occupation and industry mobility and column (v) considers\
industries based on the 1990 Census classi\uc0\u64257 cation. We analyse the 4 task-based cat-\
egories including managerial occupations in column (vi) and excluding managerial\
occupations in column (vii). In addition, in column (iii) we consider NUN spells in-\
stead of just pure unemployment spells. Note that all of these regression extend the\
corresponding regressions reported in Section 1 of this appendix by including the\
relevant cyclical variable. Standard errors are derived by clustering at the quarter\
level.\
The main message from this table is that including demographic controls, or oc-\
cupation (industry) \uc0\u64257 xed effects do not seem to meaningful change the measured re-\
sponsiveness of mobility with respect to the business cycle. Our evidence therefore\
strongly suggests that the procyclicality of occupational/industry mobility among\
the unemployed is not driven by compositional shifts, whereby in expansions (re-\
cessions) we observe more (less) workers who are linked to occupation/industries\
or demographic characteristics that are associated with higher mobility.\
71We further have investigated the cyclical patterns during 1985-2003 period in isolation. This\
analysis gives very similar results, although they produce less precise estimates.\
154\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 156 of 269]\
Table 33: Cyclicality of Mobility Controlling for Demographics and Occupation\
Identities\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC 2000 SOC-NUN OCC*IND IND NR/R-M/C C/NRM/RM\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)\
Panel A. Regression of Individual Mobility on Linearly De-trended Unemployment Rate\
A1: uncorrected, time controls, no demog, no occ/ind controls\
U.rate -0.0788*** -0.0890*** -0.0583*** -0.0606*** -0.0952*** -0.0575*** -0.0589***\
(s.e.) (0.0180) (0.0211) (0.0153) (0.0192) (0.0219) (0.0192) (0.0191)\
A2: uncorrected, time and demog. controls, no occ/ind controls\
U.rate -0.0763*** -0.0910*** -0.0552*** -0.0579*** -0.0904*** -0.0542*** -0.0547***\
(s.e.) (0.0176) (0.0213) (0.0151) (0.0199) (0.0217) (0.0198) (0.0198)\
A3: uncorrected, time, demog. & source occ. Controls\
U.rate -0.0707*** -0.0810*** -0.0521*** -0.0546*** -0.0783*** -0.0560*** -0.0578***\
(s.e.) (0.0176) (0.0217) (0.0148) (0.0200) (0.0217) (0.0193) (0.0192)\
A4: uncorrected, time, demog. Controls and dest. Occ controls\
U.rate -0.0766*** -0.0831*** -0.0564*** -0.0568*** -0.0817*** -0.0545*** -0.0568***\
(s.e.) (0.0176) (0.0214) (0.0146) (0.0197) (0.0218) (0.0197) (0.0197)\
Panel B. Regression of Individual Mobility on HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered Unemployment Rate\
B1: uncorrected, time controls, no demog, no occ/ind controls\
HP U.rate -0.1594*** -0.1768*** -0.1182*** -0.1198** -0.2092*** -0.0840** -0.0959**\
(s.e.) (0.0420) (0.0449) (0.0366) (0.0458) (0.0543) (0.0408) (0.0419)\
B2: uncorrected, time and demog. controls, no occ/ind controls\
HP U.rate -0.1520*** -0.1782*** -0.1088*** -0.1137** -0.2012*** -0.0751* -0.0829*\
(s.e.) (0.0418) (0.0457) (0.0367) (0.0472) (0.0536) (0.0421) (0.0438)\
B3: uncorrected, time, demog. & source occ. Controls\
HP U.rate -0.1409*** -0.1623*** -0.1045*** -0.1090** -0.1825*** -0.0782* -0.0884**\
(s.e.) (0.0396) (0.0451) (0.0347) (0.0472) (0.0542) (0.0413) (0.0427)\
B4: uncorrected, time, demog. Controls and dest. Occ controls\
HP U.rate -0.1476*** -0.1577*** -0.1172*** -0.1115** -0.1697*** -0.0770 -0.0906*\
(s.e.) (0.0427) (0.0495) (0.0364) (0.0479) (0.0542) (0.0466) (0.0474)\
obs 12639 12591 16574 12260 12309 12639 11506\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
Cyclical responsiveness when controlling for unemployment duration We\
now investigate the role of unemployment (non-employment) duration in the cycli-\
cality of gross occupational mobility. To do so, we estimate regressions of the form\
1occmob =b0+b1Cyclical Variable +b2(u. duration) +Controls +#. (R-dur)\
Panel A show the estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cients of the HP-\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rate\
together and spell duration when using the uncorrected mobility data (see the main\
text for the G-corrected estimates. Panel B presents these estimates using the uncor-\
rected data by further adding a time trend and controlling for classi\uc0\u64257 cation changes.\
Panels C, D and E progressively add demographic controls (gender, education, race,\
age), source occupation \uc0\u64257 xed effects or destination occupation \u64257 xed effects, respec-\
tively. Panel F considers the estimated duration coef\uc0\u64257 cient with added controls over\
155\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 157 of 269]\
the same uncorrected data, but without a cyclical regressor. Note that because of\
we use only those quarters with an uncensored duration distribution in the cycli-\
cal analysis (and in panel F), these data is a subset of the one used to estimate the\
overall duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in the main text and the previous sections of this appendix.\
Table 34: Cyclicality of Mobility Controlling for Unemployment Duration\
2000 SOC 1990 SOC 2000 SOC-NUN OCC*IND IND NR/R-M/C C/NRM/RM\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)\
Panel A: uncorrected, no demog, no time, no occ/ind controls\
HP U.rate -0.1655*** -0.1831*** -0.1126*** -0.1251*** -0.2068*** -0.0834* -0.0974**\
(s.e.) (0.0475) (0.0518) (0.0385) (0.047) (0.0554) (0.0449) (0.0444)\
Duration 0.0139*** 0.0148*** 0.0139*** 0.0110*** 0.0115*** 0.0093*** 0.0093***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0017) (0.0017) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
Panel B: uncorrected, with time and classi\uc0\u64257 cation controls\
HP U.rate -0.2037*** -0.2237*** -0.1494*** -0.1549*** -0.2458*** -0.1137*** -0.1240***\
(s.e.) (0.0421) (0.0453) (0.0360) (0.0459) (0.0540) (0.0418) (0.0422)\
Duration 0.0142*** 0.0151*** 0.0141*** 0.0112*** 0.0117*** 0.0095*** 0.0095***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0017) (0.0017) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
Panel C: uncorrected, with demog, time controls, no occ/ind controls\
HP U.rate -0.2019*** -0.2297*** -0.1419*** -0.1527*** -0.2418*** -0.1085** -0.1138**\
(s.e.) (0.0417) (0.0461) (0.0361) (0.0471) (0.0530) (0.0432) (0.0444)\
Duration 0.0160*** 0.0166*** 0.0143*** 0.0125*** 0.0130*** 0.0107*** 0.0106***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0016) (0.0018) (0.0017) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
Panel D: uncorrected, source occupation controls, time and demographic controls\
HP U.rate -0.1863*** -0.2106*** -0.1357*** -0.1436*** -0.2178*** -0.1123*** -0.1206***\
(s.e.) (0.0397) (0.0457) (0.0340) (0.0471) (0.0534) (0.0423) (0.0432)\
Duration 0.0148*** 0.0155*** 0.0134*** 0.0112*** 0.0112*** 0.0109*** 0.0109***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0017) (0.0016) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
Panel E: uncorrected, destination occupation controls, time and demographic controls\
HP U.rate -0.2036*** -0.2085*** -0.1462*** -0.1545*** -0.2259*** -0.1081** -0.1188***\
(s.e.) (0.0397) (0.0457) (0.0332) (0.0466) (0.0521) (0.0426) (0.0433)\
Duration 0.0152*** 0.0156*** 0.0133*** 0.0117*** 0.0113*** 0.0109*** 0.0109***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0017) (0.0016) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
Panel F: comparison (duration pro\uc0\u64257 le, no cycle, with time + demog controls)\
Duration 0.0149*** 0.0153*** 0.0136*** 0.0117*** 0.0119*** 0.0102*** 0.0101***\
(s.e.) (0.0019) (0.0018) (0.0016) (0.0018) (0.0018) (0.0015) (0.0016)\
*p<0.1; ** p<0.05; *** p<0.01\
Relative to the results in Table 33 (panel B), we observe that controlling for\
the duration of the unemployment (non-employment) spell increases the cyclical\
responsiveness of occupational mobility. This arises as the estimated unemploy-\
ment coef\uc0\u64257 cient conditional on duration captures the vertical shift of the mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Without controlling for duration, the unemployment coef\u64257 cient\
captures both the vertical shift of the pro\uc0\u64257 le and the rightward shift of the unem-\
ployment duration distribution that one observes in recessions. The inclusion of\
further controls does not meaningfully change either the slope of the pro\uc0\u64257 le or the\
156\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 158 of 269]\
cyclical responsiveness of occupational mobility. This suggests that the scope to link\
compositional shifts across source occupations (or demographics) to the observed\
cyclicality of mobility conditional on completed unemployment duration is limited. Fur-\
ther, it also runs counter to a role of occupational or demographical shifts in our\
\uc0\u64257 nding that recessions also exhibit a moderately increasing mobility-duration pro-\
\uc0\u64257 le for the unemployed .\
B.3.2 Cyclical responsiveness of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
We now turn to investigate the cyclicality of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. Figures\
37a, c and e depict the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in periods of high and low unem-\
ployment, using the major occupations of the 2000 SOC and the 4 task-based cate-\
gories. Periods of high unemployment are de\uc0\u64257 ned as those in which the HP-\u64257 ltered\
(log) unemployment rate lies within the top third of the distribution of HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered\
(log) unemployment rates; while periods of low unemployment are de\uc0\u64257 ned as those\
in which the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rate lies within the bottom third of the\
distribution. The thickness of each pro\uc0\u64257 le re\u64258 ects the number of unemployed work-\
ers with an unemployment spell of at least xmonths of duration. It is readily seen\
that in periods of high unemployment there are both more unemployed workers\
and longer unemployment spells. The main conclusion from these graphs is that\
occupational mobility is higher in periods of low unemployment than in periods of\
high unemployment at all unemployment durations . Figure 37a shows that when con-\
sidering major occupations the two mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les are statistically differ-\
ent from each other for those unemployment durations of up to 6 months. Beyond\
this point, the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le associated with periods of low unemploy-\
ment becomes thinner and its con\uc0\u64257 dence bands become wider.72Figure 37e shows\
that when considering the 4 task-based occupations without the managerial occupa-\
tions, the two mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les are also statistically different from each at\
shorter unemployment durations. Including the managerial occupations decreases\
the precision of the estimates, generating wider con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals.\
As a complementary way to investigate the shift of the mobility-duration pro-\
\uc0\u64257 le between periods of high and low unemployment, Figures 37b, d and f depict\
72We do not plot the duration pro\uc0\u64257 le when the associated con\u64257 dence interval becomes wider than\
0.2.\
157\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 159 of 269]\
.4 .45 .5 .55 .6 .65Occupational Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment\
times of high U  times of low U \
95% CI 95% CI(a) 2000 SOC - Aggregate mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111122222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222233333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333334444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555556666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666667777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777 8888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888889999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999910101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010\
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111\
1212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Unemployment Duration at Job Start\
Pred. Diff. Mobility Between Good and Bad Times\
95% CI (b) 2000 SOC - Marginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
.3 .35 .4 .45 .5Occupational Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment\
times of high U  times of low U \
95% CI 95% CI\
(c) 4RTMC - Aggregate mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222 3333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333 4444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444 55555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666 7777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777 888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888 9999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999910101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212-.1 -.05 0 .05 .1Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Unemployment Duration at Job Start\
Pred. Diff. Mobility Between Good and Bad Times\
95% CI (d) 4RTMC - Marginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
.2 .3 .4 .5 .6Occupational Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment\
times of high U  times of low U \
95% CI 95% CI\
(e) 4RTMC, excl. Mgt - Aggregate mobility-\
duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222223333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333334444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444445555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555566666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666 777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777 8888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888899999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010\
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111\
12121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Unemployment Duration at Job Start\
Pred. Diff. Mobility Between Good and Bad Times\
95% CI(f) 4RTMC, excl. Mgt - Marginal mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le\
Figure 37: Cyclical responsiveness of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le\
themarginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. The latter measures the change in occupa-\
tional mobility at the same completed unemployment duration between periods of\
158\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 160 of 269]\
high and low unemployment. This is in contrast to the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 les\
considered in Figures 37a, c and e where, for example, a substantial part of those\
in unemployment at 4 months will still be in unemployment at 5 months, and thus\
contributing to the average occupational mobility at 4 and 5 months. Since the con-\
struction of the marginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le relies on a much lower number\
of observations at each duration, we make a functional form assumption on the shift\
of this pro\uc0\u64257 le over the cycle. Speci\u64257 cally, we estimate the probability that a worker\
changed occupation (industry) at a given unemployment duration as\
1occmob =b0+b11Cycl+12\
\'e5\
n=1b2n(u. duration dummy) +\
+b3\
1Cyclu. duration+b4\
1Cycl(u. duration)2\
+Controls +#,\
(R-X)\
where 1Cyclis the cyclical indicator (0 for periods of high unemployment and 1 for\
periods of low unemployment), and unemployment duration refers to completed\
spell duration. We estimate this equation on the uncorrected (from miscoding) SIPP\
data, controlling for a linear time trend and classi\uc0\u64257 cation changes. Note that equa-\
tion R-X allows us to shift the marginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le differently at dif-\
ferent durations following a quadratic relationship.73Figures 37b, d and f show that\
in times of high unemployment, workers who end their unemployment spells at any\
duration have a lower probability of changing occupation. The differences in prob-\
ability of an occupational change is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant for durations between 2\
and 10 months when using the 2000 SOC and between 2 and 7 months when using\
the 4 task-based categories, excluding managerial occupations.\
Figure 38 shows the marginal mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le by estimating regression\
R-X using instead the linearly de-trended unemployment rate as the cyclical indica-\
tor. In this case we observe an even stronger difference in the occupational mobility\
rates of unemployed workers at any completed duration during periods of high\
73We have also experimented with a cubic and quartic relationship. These alternatives at times\
make the response stronger for durations between 6-10 months, while declining beyond 10 months.\
However, beyond 10 months, the con\uc0\u64257 dence intervals in all cases become rather wide. Using an\
alternative speci\uc0\u64257 cation, where instead of duration dummies for the pro\u64257 le, we use a linear baseline\
relation between mobility and duration does not change the presented relationship meaningfully.\
Using a cubic or quartic formulation does not meaningfully change the direction of the shifts or its\
statistical signi\uc0\u64257 cance, throughout this section.\
159\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 161 of 269]\
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222233333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333334444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 66666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666 7777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777 8888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888 999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999 1010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111112121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Unemployment Duration at Job Start\
Pred. Diff. Mobility Between Good and Bad Times\
95% CI(a) Major Occupation Groups (1990 SOC)\
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222233333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333333334444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444 555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555 66666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666 7777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777 8888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888 999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999999101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101010101011111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111112121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212121212-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Unemployment Duration at Job Start\
Pred. Diff. Mobility Between Good and Bad Times\
95% CI (b) NRMC\
Figure 38: Cyclical Occupational Mobility Shift of the Unemployed\
and low unemployment rates. In particular, for the 4 task-based categories, includ-\
ing managers, we now see that in periods of high unemployment the entire pro\uc0\u64257 le\
shifts down, and statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cantly so between 2 and 8 months.\
Occupational Mobility and Rank in the Duration Distribution over the Busi-\
ness Cycle To investigate to what extend the rightward shift in the mobility-duration\
pro\uc0\u64257 le observed in Figures 37a, c and e is due to a rightward shift in the unemploy-\
ment duration distribution, we derive workers\'92 occupational mobility as a function\
of the rank of their unemployment spell in the duration distribution. We do this\
both in times of high and low unemployment, as de\uc0\u64257 ned above. Figures 39a and\
c, depict the relation between the average occupational mobility rate of the 100-x%\
of longest unemployment spells with the rank of these unemployment spells in the\
unemployment duration distribution. For both the major occupational groups of\
the 2000 SOC and the 4 task-based categories we observe that at anygiven rank,\
occupational mobility is lower in periods of high unemployment and this difference\
appears statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant for a wide interval of ranks around the median. This\
implies that the downward shift of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in times of high\
unemployment goes beyond the rightward shift of the duration distribution associ-\
ated with recessions. In particular, we do not observe that the business cycle shifts\
mobility at lower quantiles of the duration distribution in a different direction than\
it does at the higher quantiles. Therefore, it is not the case that relatively shorter\
160\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 162 of 269]\
123456789101112\
123456789.4 .45 .5 .55 .6 .65Average occ. mobility of (100-x)%\
longest spells\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentage x of unemployment spells, ranked increasingly in duration\
Bad Times Good times\
95% CI 95% CI(a) 2000 SOC - Corrected Mobility in Surviv-\
ing Spells\
-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI(b) 2000 SOC - Cyclical Shift of Mobility across\
Percentiles of Completed Spell Distribution\
1234567891011\
12\
123456789.25 .3 .35 .4 .45 .5Average occ. mobility of (100-x)%\
longest spells\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentage x of unemployment spells, ranked increasingly in duration\
Bad Times Good times\
95% CI 95% CI\
(c) NRMC excl. Mgt, Code-Error Corr in Sur-\
viving Spells\
-.05 0 .05 .1Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI(d) NRMC excl. Mgt, Cyclical Shift of Mobil-\
ity across Percentiles of Completed Spell Dis-\
tribution\
Figure 39: Cyclical change in Mobility, and Rank in Unemployment Duration Dis-\
tribution\
unemployment spells display more occupational attachment in a recession, while\
simultaneously the relatively longer spells display less occupational attachment.\
Figures 39b and d, investigate this issue further and depict the estimated change\
in occupational mobility between period of high and low unemployment on indi-\
vidual panel (uncorrected) data, controlling for a time-trend and classi\uc0\u64257 cation ef-\
fects. We analyse occupational mobility ata given percentile of the (completed) du-\
ration distribution, rather than the average occupational mobility of the subset of all\
spells including and above that percentile, as in Figures 39a and c. Once again since\
this exercise involves a lower number of observations we make a functional form\
assumption on the relationship between unemployment duration and occupational\
161\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 163 of 269]\
mobility. In particular, we estimate a variant of R-X as\
1occmob =b0+b11Cycl+b2,1(u. duration) +b2,2(u. duration)2\
+b3\
1Cyclu. duration+b4\
1Cycl(u. duration)2\
+Controls +#,\
(R-XX)\
where 1Cyclis the cyclical indicator (0 for periods of high unemployment and 1 for\
periods of low unemployment) and instead of unemployment duration dummies\
we have a smooth quadratic duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in recessions, and a (potentially) dif-\
ferent quadratic duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in booms.74\
For mobility across major occupational groups we observe that at any given per-\
centile of the completed unemployment duration distribution, mobility is higher in\
periods of low unemployment relative to periods of high unemployment. This dif-\
ference is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant for the vast majority of spells between the 35th and\
90th percentile. This pattern is very similar for mobility across the 4 task-based cat-\
egories, albeit statistically weaker. Thus recessions appear to reduce occupational\
mobility across a wide range of the percentiles of the unemployment spell distri-\
bution. Figure 40 shows the estimates for the same exercises as before, but using\
the linearly de-trended unemployment rates as a cyclical indicator. Here we also\
observe a cyclical shift in mobility across the whole distribution of unemployment\
spells. In this case, the difference between periods of high and low unemployment\
is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant at almost all quantiles of the distribution up to the 80-\
90th percentile (2000 SOC) and between the 35th and 95th percentile (4 task-based\
caterories).\
Conclusion In recessions, unemployment spells are longer and unemployed\
workers are less mobile. This pattern is shared across many subsets of the popula-\
tion, when dividing by gender, education, age, occupations and industries. Within\
a recession as within an expansion, longer-unemployed workers are relatively more\
mobile. We show that the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le appears to shift down in reces-\
sions. However, the cyclical shift down of the duration pro\uc0\u64257 le in recession goes\
beyond a slowdown in the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate. Throughout the quantiles of the unem-\
74We also have experimented with linear, cubic and quartic speci\uc0\u64257 cations of the duration pro\u64257 le,\
which do not lead to different conclusions for the \uc0\u64257 rst-order patterns discussed here, unless stated.\
162\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 164 of 269]\
-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI(a) 21 MOG (2000) Mobility in Out\uc0\u64258 ow from U\
-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI (b) 4 NRMC excl. Mgt Mobility in Out\uc0\u64258 ow from U\
Figure 40: Good and Bad Times according to Linearly-Detrended Unemployment\
Series\
ployment spell distribution, occupational mobility goes down in recessions (statis-\
tically so for a substantial part of the distribution). This pattern appears a general\
feature of occupational and industrial mobility of the unemployed, and is likewise\
present for the 1990 SOC and for 1990 Industry Census Classi\uc0\u64257 cation, in Figure 41.\
B.3.3 The cyclical behaviour of net occupational mobility\
To study the cyclical behavior of net mobility we split the sample of unemployment\
spells into two groups. The \uc0\u64257 rst group is composed by those spells that ended in\
quarters with the highest (100xb)% of HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rates. We\
label these quarters as \'93downturns\'94. The second group is composed by those un-\
employment spells that ended in quarters with the lowest xg% of HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log)\
unemployment rates. We label these quarters as \'93expansions\'94. To proceed we need\
to choose values for xgand xb. The choice of these percentile cutoffs, however,\
presents the following trade-off. On the one hand, a low xg(and/or a high xb)\
implies a relatively small sample of unemployment spells. This could be problem-\
atic, as the law of large numbers is not necessarily strong enough in small samples\
to mitigate randomness in the direction of observed occupational \uc0\u64258 ows.75On the\
75Consider for example a set of gross \uc0\u64258 ows obtained from an underlying distribution of \u64258 ows\
were net mobility is zero. If this set contains only one observation of occupational mobility, this\
observation will be categories as a net \uc0\u64258 ow and one would need 100% of gross \u64258 ows to cover the net\
\uc0\u64258 ow.\
163\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 165 of 269]\
.4 .5 .6 .7Occupational Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment\
times of high U  times of low U \
95% CI 95% CI(a) Major Occ. Groups (1990 SOC)\
-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI (b) Major Occ. Groups (1990 SOC)\
.45 .5 .55 .6 .65 .7Occupational Mobility\
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12\
Time in Unemployment\
times of high U  times of low U \
95% CI 95% CI\
(c) Major Industry Groups (1990 Census Ind. Cl.)\
-.05 0 .05 .1 .15Mobility Rate Difference\
 (Good Times - Bad Times) \
0 20 40 60 80 100\
Percentile of U. Spell Duration Distribution\
Smoothed Predicted Mobility Rate Difference \
95% CI (d) Major Industry Groups (1990 Census Ind. Cl.)\
Figure 41: Occupation and Industry Mobility of the Unemployed (1990 Census Clas-\
si\uc0\u64257 cations)\
other hand, it could be the case that for structural reasons the response of net mo-\
bility is larger when we restrict to more extreme cyclical periods. The latter will\
imply that a low xg(and/or a high xb) by itself might go hand-in-hand with more\
net mobility, because it concentrates on the most responsive periods.\
To investigate whether this trade-off is important for the cyclicality of net mo-\
bility, Figure 42 shows the net \uc0\u64258 ows across the 4 task-based categories as a function\
ofxb,xg2[0.2, 0.8 ]. As described in the main paper these \uc0\u64258 ows are normalised by\
the number of employment-unemployment-employment spells observed during ei-\
ther expansion and recessions as de\uc0\u64257 ned above. The blue curve depicts net \u64258 ows\
in expansions and the black curve depicts net \uc0\u64258 ows in downturns. To compare net\
mobility between expansions and recessions, de\uc0\u64257 ned for example as periods with\
164\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 166 of 269]\
0 5000 10000 15000\
Number of Observations.01 .02 .03 .04 .05Net Flow\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
20 40 60 80\
Percentile Cutoffs Times of High and Low Unemployment \
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
Net flow Low-U Times Net flow High-U Times\
No. Spells Low-U times No. Spells High-U times\
Average Net flow(a) Net Mobility (and no. observations)\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2 .3Unemployment Rate (detrended)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1\
Quarter\
Unemployment Rate Bad Times Unemployment Rate Good Times\
Unemployment Rate at other times (b) High-U times (above 67th pctile), Low-U (be-\
low 50th pctile)\
Figure 42: Net Mobility and De\uc0\u64257 nition of High-U and Low-U times\
0 5000 10000 15000\
Number of Observations-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04Net Outflow (+ out, - in)\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
20 40 60 80\
Upper bound Unemployment Rate for Low-U Times\
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
NRC RC\
NRM RM\
No. obs\
(a) Times of High U\
5000 10000 15000\
Number of Observations-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04Net Outflow (+ out, - in)\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
20 40 60 80\
Lower bound Unemployment Rate for High-U Times\
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
NRC RC\
NRM RM\
No. obs (b) Times of Low U\
Figure 43: Net Mobility per (NRMC) Occupation and De\uc0\u64257 nition of High-U and\
Low-U times\
the lowest and highest 33% of HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rates, one needs to\
compare the value of the blue curve at the x-coordinate 0.33 with the value of the\
black curve at the x-coordinate 0.67. The green dashed line (with circles) denotes\
theaverage net mobility obtained from calculating net mobility in expansions and\
in downturns and then averaging over these, weighting them by the number of un-\
derlying unemployment spells. In this case, the percentile on the x-axis represents\
the upper bound of unemployment rates to de\uc0\u64257 ne expansions, and simultaneously\
the lower bound to de\uc0\u64257 ne downturns. In all these cases the net \u64258 ows are calcu-\
lated from the implied occupational transition matrix of all unemployment spells\
165\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 167 of 269]\
that ended in an expansion or a downturn. We then applied the G-correction to this\
matrix.\
-.01 0 .01 .02 .03Net Flow\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
30 40 50 60 70\
Percentile Cutoffs Times of High and Low Unemployment \
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
Times of High U Times of Low U\
(a) NRC\
-.01 0 .01 .02 .03Net Flow\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
30 40 50 60 70\
Percentile Cutoffs Times of High and Low Unemployment \
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
Times of High U Times of Low U (b) RC\
-.04 -.03 -.02 -.01 0Net Flow\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
30 40 50 60 70\
Percentile Cutoffs Times of High and Low Unemployment \
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
Times of High U Times of Low U\
(c) NRM\
-.01 0 .01 .02 .03Net Flow\
(proportion of all unemployment spells)\
30 40 50 60 70\
Percentile Cutoffs Times of High and Low Unemployment \
Percentile of Unemployment Rate Distribution\
Times of High U Times of Low U (d) RM\
Figure 44: Net Mobility Out\uc0\u64258 ows (In\u64258 ows) per Occupations, and de\u64257 nition of High-\
U and Low-U times\
The main message that comes out of Figure 42 is that overall net mobility across\
task-based categories is countercyclical for any xb,xg2[0.2, 0.8 ]. Thus, the varia-\
tions in the size of our samples do not seem to affect our \uc0\u64257 nding that net mobility\
is countercyclical. Figure 43 presents the same exercise but focusing on individual\
task-based categories. Figure 43a shows net mobility in expansions as a function\
ofxg; while Figure 43b shows net mobility in downturns as a function of xb. Here\
we observe that the net \uc0\u64258 ows of the routine manual and non-routine manual cat-\
egories are larger in downturns than in expansions, implying that the net \uc0\u64258 ows of\
these categories are countercyclical for any xb,xg2[0.2, 0.8 ]. Further, both in expan-\
166\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 168 of 269]\
sions and downturns the non-routine manual category exhibits net in\uc0\u64258 ows while the\
routine manual category exhibits net out\uc0\u64258 ows , consistent with the job polarization\
literature. The patterns for the cognitive categories, however, are not as clear. For\
example, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the net \u64258 ows of the non-routine cognitive category are only\
higher in downturns when considering xb,xg2[0.45, 0.8 ]. Figure 44 shows all these\
net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows in more detail, depicting the pairwise expansion and downturn\
comparison of net \uc0\u64258 ows for each category separately.\
In light of the above, when analysing net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows we will take expansions\
to represent quarters with below median HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemployment rates and\
downturns to represent quarters with the 33% highest HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemploy-\
ment rates. The bene\uc0\u64257 t of de\u64257 ning the business cycle in this way is that the afore-\
mentioned small sample issue seems to be less important in this de\uc0\u64257 nition of an ex-\
pansion, where unemployment spells are less frequently observed. Indeed, the blue\
curve in Figure 42a appears well behaved around the median.76Figure 42b also\
shows that the standard NBER recessions and their immediate aftermath closely\
correspond to this de\uc0\u64257 nition of downturns, while the second half of the 1990s, late\
1980s, and mid-2000s till the beginning of the Great Recession closely correspond to\
this de\uc0\u64257 nition of expansions.\
-.02 -.01 0 .01 .02 .03\
NRC RC NRM RM\
Times of High U Times of Low U\
(a) Cyclical Net Mobility (NRMC excl. Manage-\
ment)\
-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04\
NRC RC NRM RM\
Times of High U Times of Low U(b) Cyclical Net Mobility (NRMC incl. Manage-\
ment)\
Figure 45: Net Mobility by Task-based categories\
76Also note the there is relatively little variation in the average net mobility between the 40th\
and 65th percentile. As we restrict sample sizes when moving across these different cutoffs, noisier\
observations of net \uc0\u64258 ows in the smaller set can drive up the average net mobility rate. This does not\
seem to be the case for our measures.\
167\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 169 of 269]\
Analysing the business cycles in such a way implies that overall net mobility ac-\
counts for 1.1% of workers unemployment spells in expansions, while it accounts\
for 3.2% of workers unemployment spells in downturns. Figure 42 depicts these val-\
ues as the intersection between the left-most vertical line with the blue curve and the\
intersection between the right-most vertical line with the black curve, respectively.77\
Figure 45a displays the net mobility patterns for each of the 4 task-based categories\
also using this business cycle de\uc0\u64257 nition. As suggested by Figures 43 and 44, the\
non-routine manual category exhibits a countercyclical increase in net in\uc0\u64258 ows: in\
downturns 3.2% of workers\'92 unemployment spells cover the net mobility of work-\
ers into non-routine manual occupations, while only 1.1% of spells in expansions.\
In contrast, the routine manual category exhibits a countercyclical increase in net\
out\uc0\u64258 ows: in downturns 1.7% of workers\'92 unemployment spells are needed to cover\
the net mobility of workers out of routine manual occupations, while only 0.7% of\
spells in expansions.\
Figure 45b display the net mobility across the four task-based categories, but\
now including managerial occupations in the non-routine cognitive category. In this\
case net \uc0\u64258 ows of over 2% of all unemployment spells now originate from the non-\
routine cognitive category, while the routine cognitive category now experiences\
a net in\uc0\u64258 ow as a result of former managers taking up administrative or sales jobs.\
Further, the in\uc0\u64258 ow from management mutes somewhat the out\u64258 ow from the routine\
manual category. Nevertheless, the same cyclical patterns regarding non-routine\
and routine manual categories emerge. Net in\uc0\u64258 ows into the former and net out\u64258 ows\
from the latter are larger in absolute value during downturns.\
We now investigate whether the above net mobility patterns appear common\
across the various expansion and downturn episodes we observe during our sample\
period. Using the above de\uc0\u64257 nition of the business cycle, Figure 46a distinguishes\
three expansion and three downturn episodes, where the quarters of our sample are\
divided into largely connected (continuous) episodes.78To check the robustness of\
77As an alternative to the above benchmark we also split the sample into two parts with an equal\
number of observations. In this case expansions correspond to the lowest 61% of HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log)\
unemployment rates, and recessions correspond to the highest 39% of HP \uc0\u64257 ltered (log) unemploy-\
ment rates. This alternative generates a similar cyclical change in net mobility, whereby net mobility\
accounts for 1.0% of unemployment spells in expansions and accounts for 3.3% of unemployment\
spells in recessions.\
78We take those quarters with below-median unemployment rates in the second part of the 90s\
168\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 170 of 269]\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2 .3Unemployment Rate (detrended)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1\
Quarter\
end 80s (good) early 90s (bad) end 90s (good)\
early 00s (bad) md 00s (good) Great Recession\
other quarters (no obs.) other quarters (in sample)(a) Baseline episodes\
-.2 -.1 0 .1 .2 .3Unemployment Rate (detrended)\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1\
Quarter\
end 80s (good) end 90s (good) mid 00s (good)\
early 00s (bad) early 90s (bad) Great Recession\
other quarters (no obs.) other quarters (in sample) (b) Alternative (NBER) episodes\
Figure 46: Expansion and downturn episodes: 1986-2013\
our results, Figure 46b considers an alternative de\uc0\u64257 nition of the business cycle that\
is closer to the NBER one. In this case we label as downturns the set of quarters\
that starting with an NBER recession go until one year after peak unemployment\
is reached. Expansions are the set of quarters preceding these downturns, going\
backwards until a previous downturn is reached (with a two quarter gap) or until\
the sample sizes are about balanced. This alternative de\uc0\u64257 nition differs from the\
baseline one by including early NBER recession quarters in which HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered (log)\
unemployment rates were low but rising fast, and by limiting the 1990s expansion\
to the 1997-2000 period. Given that the overall number of net mobility \uc0\u64258 ows is small\
(see Section 2 of this appendix), note that the main caveat of these exercises is that\
each episode ends up containing an even smaller number of net \uc0\u64258 ows. As discussed\
earlier this can generate nosier and potentially (upward) biased estimates.\
The resulting net mobility patterns are displaying in Figures 47a and 47b. We\
observe that the overall patterns described in Figure 45a seem to be common across\
all expansions and downturns. In particular, we observe that across all episodes the\
non-routine manual category exhibit net in\uc0\u64258 ows, while the routine manual category\
exhibits net out\uc0\u64258 ows. The non-routine cognitive category also exhibits net out\u64258 ows\
in most episodes across the two business cycle de\uc0\u64257 nitions. The routine cognitive net\
\uc0\u64258 ows, however, are close to zero but change direction across episodes. This means\
that the overall low net mobility rate over the entire sample period does not mask\
as one period, and exclude the 2008 quarters in the Great Recession that still have below-median\
unemployment rates from the expansion.\
169\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 171 of 269]\
-.02 0 .02 .04\
End 80s (good)\
Early 90s (bad)\
End 90s (good)\
Early 00s (bad)\
Mid 00s (good)\
Great Recession\
Non-Routine Cognitive Routine Cognitive\
Non-Routine Manual Routine Manual(a) Cyclical Net Mobility (Baseline episodes)\
-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04\
End 80s (good)\
Early 90s (bad)\
End 90s (good)\
Early 00s (bad)\
Mid 00s (good)\
Great Recession\
Non-Routine Cognitive Routine Cognitive\
Non-Routine Manual Routine Manual\
(b) Cyclical Net Mobility (Alternative (NBER) episodes)\
Figure 47: Net mobility at different expansions and downturns\
meaningful reversals of direction or more substantial net mobility over time and\
this seems to be consistent across different de\uc0\u64257 nitions of the business cycle.\
We also observe that each expansion episode is associated with less net mobility\
than in the downturn episodes. Moreover, across both business cycle de\uc0\u64257 nitions the\
net in\uc0\u64258 ows into the non-routine manual category are larger in downturns than in ex-\
pansions. A difference, however, is that the net in\uc0\u64258 ows during the Great Recession\
170\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 172 of 269]\
are more pronounced using the business cycle de\uc0\u64257 nition that is close to the NBER\
one. This appears to re\uc0\u64258 ect that in our data net mobility into the non-routine man-\
ual category is noticeably higher during the NBER recession quarters of the Great\
Recession, and less so in the aftermath. Since Figure 47b includes more of the afore-\
mentioned NBER recession quarters, it naturally observe a stronger responds. Note\
also the cyclical pattern in the net out\uc0\u64258 ows from the routine manual category. These\
net out\uc0\u64258 ows appear typically larger in downturns than in expansions. This pattern\
is strongest when using our baseline de\uc0\u64257 nition of the business cycle, but when us-\
ing the de\uc0\u64257 nition closer to the NBER one we observe an increase in the net out\u64258 ows\
during the late 1990s expansion episode.\
B.4 Job Finding Hazards and Spell Duration with Oc-\
cupational Mobility\
In this section we \uc0\u64257 rst investigate the re-employment hazard functions of those\
workers who changed employers through spells of non-employment, differentiat-\
ing between these workers\'92 degrees of labor market attachments. This connects to\
our calibration targets. We then analyse the differences in unemployment durations\
between those workers who changed occupations and those who did not, and how\
these durations respond over the cycle. This further connects to the model and cali-\
bration, including the calibration outcomes. In particular, we document that in cycli-\
cal downturns, it is the unemployment duration of movers that lengthens more. We\
show that this result is robust even when controlling for destination and/or source\
destinations.\
B.4.1 Job Finding Hazard\
The right-hand panel of Figure 48 shows the probability that a worker is still with-\
out a job as a function of the number of months that have passed since losing his\
previous job. The solid lines capture the survival functions for the set of workers\
who have experienced unemployed for all months since losing their jobs, while\
the dashed lines refer to male workers who have been unemployed for at least\
one month since losing their job, but not necessarily all months, i.e. have a non-\
171\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 173 of 269]\
employment spell that mixes out of the labour force with unemployment (labelled\
a \'93NUN-spell\'94). We restrict our attention to males here because females have in-\
terestingly different patterns (with higher survival in non-employment at longer\
duration), which nevertheless might be driven by different motives than the condi-\
tions in their labour market alone. Males which have been unemployed for every\
month since losing their job are not displayed separately, because the associated\
graph stays very close to the depicted \'93U-spell\'94 category for both males and fe-\
males.\
Within these categories, we can separately investigate the subset of young work-\
ers (between 20-30 years old) and prime-aged (between 35-55 years old), drawn\
in green (with diamond-shaped markers) and dark-blue (with circle markers) re-\
spectively. We observe that survival in non-employment is indeed higher for those\
workers who are not searching for a job in every month, but the general shape and\
age differences seem preserved across both groups.\
0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1(Cumulative) Survival Probability in Nonemployment\
0 5 10 15 20\
Months in NonemploymentNUN-spells U-spells\
All All\
Young Young\
Prime-aged Prime-aged\
(a) Survival in Nonemployment with Duration\
0 .1 .2 .3Monthly Job Finding Probability\
0 5 10 15 20\
Months in Nonemployment (b) Job Finding Rate with Duration\
Figure 48: Job \uc0\u64257 nding out of non-employment\
The left-hand panel of Figure 48 depicts the implied monthly job \uc0\u64257 nding prob-\
abilities, with Epanechnikov-kernel weighted local polynomial smoothing (band-\
width 2.5). First note the extent of duration dependence in job \uc0\u64257 nding in the \u64257 rst\
10 months, with a job \uc0\u64257 nding rate that falls about 1 percentage point per month for\
all unemployed workers. This \'93moderate\'94 duration dependence is in part because\
we focus on those workers who have become more strongly detached from employ-\
ment. By construction, the workers we consider are without work for at least a\
172\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 174 of 269]\
whole month (hence, the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate in the \u64257 rst month refers to the probability\
of \uc0\u64257 nding a job within the next month, after having been unemployed for a month).\
We also exclude workers in temporary layoff, who have a higher job \uc0\u64257 nding rate.\
As a result of these restrictions, our hazard functions do not exhibit the steep\
drop typically observed during the \uc0\u64257 rst month in unemployment (which can be\
seen e.g. in Farber and Valletta, 2015, Figure 3, based on the CPS). As argued in\
the main text, our restrictions are motivated by the \uc0\u64257 nding in the literature that\
entrants into unemployment can be separated roughly into two different groups:\
a set of workers who has high job \uc0\u64257 nding rates and behaves differently over the\
cycle, with most of the cyclical movement in the unemployment rate due to those\
who are in the second, slower job-\uc0\u64257 nding group. We want to focus on the latter\
group. Fujita and Moscarini (2017) highlight the roll of recalls for the \uc0\u64257 rst group and,\
importantly also for our paper, highlight the different job \uc0\u64257 nding expectations of the\
\uc0\u64257 rst group. This motivates our exclusion from unemployment/non-employment of\
those who are classi\uc0\u64257 ed in the SIPP as \'93with a \u64257 rm, on layoff\'94. Ahn and Hamilton\
(2019) similarly argue that two different sets of workers enter unemployment, with\
cyclical movements largely driven by the group which exhibits in comparison less\
propensity to return to employment.\
0 .1 .2 .3 .4Monthly UE Probability\
0 5 10 15\
Unemployment Length (Months)\
UE hazard Lowess Smoothed UE Hazard\
Figure 49: Aggregate Job Hazard - unconstrained unemployment de\uc0\u64257 nition\
Figure 49 depicts the hazard function of those workers who reported conventional\
unemployment the month before the interview (to \'91mimic\'92 the CPS), after dropping\
the aforementioned restrictions on entering unemployment and non-employment.\
In this case we indeed observe a much stronger duration dependence, where there is\
a large drop in the hazard function during the \uc0\u64257 rst month (see Fujita and Moscarini,\
173\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 175 of 269]\
2017, for a similar result also using the SIPP). Thus, the negative duration depen-\
dence among the unemployed (non-employed) we consider in this paper is indeed\
relatively weaker than when considering the full set of conventionally-unemployed\
workers in the same data. Aside from this, the seam effect on the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate is an\
additional issue that is clearly visible in Figure 49, at four month intervals. Although\
with our restrictions the seam effect is weaker in Figure 48, we will attempt to mini-\
mize its impact in the calibration by using survival rates at four month intervals (in\
addition to the \uc0\u64257 rst-month job \u64257 nding rate).\
Note that the extent of negative duration dependence exhibited by each group-\
speci\uc0\u64257 c hazard function depicted in Figure 48b is not too dissimilar from each other.\
Workers in the \'91U\'92 group exhibit the higher absolute change in the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate\
with duration and workers in the \'91NUN\'92 group exhibit the lower absolute change,\
but with similar relative changes of the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate with duration. The main dif-\
ference between these hazard functions seem to be more in levels, where workers\
in the \'91U\'92 group exhibit the highest hazard rates and workers in the \'91NUN\'92 groups\
exhibit the lowest hazard rates across all durations. The relative reduction in job\
\uc0\u64257 nding of prime-aged workers in \'93pure\'94 unemployment spells (when compared\
to younger workers) seems to be similarly present in the \'93mixed\'94 spells of non-\
employment with some unemployment. Interesting, although not further empha-\
sized in our paper is the non-monotonicity in the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate with duration of\
the young around 12 months, which is suggestive of a sensitivity to bene\uc0\u64257 t exhaus-\
tion that is particularly strong for this group. We abstract from this feature in the\
paper, but it is worth noting that our calibration targets, which consider survival\
probabilities in four months intervals, smooth this non-monotonicity out.\
B.4.2 Job \uc0\u64257 nding differences among occupational movers and stay-\
ers\
B.4.2.1 Long-run patterns\
The positive slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le implies that occupational movers\
take longer to \uc0\u64257 nd jobs than occupational stayers. We now investigate whether this\
difference is still present after controlling for demographic characteristics and occu-\
174\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 176 of 269]\
pational identities. To do this we report several estimates of the difference between\
the unemployment durations of occupational stayers and movers based on the un-\
corrected data. These estimates are obtained from regressions of the form\
Duration of U =b0+boccmob 1occmob +bdmdemog.ctrls +boccocc.dum +#, (R4)\
where \'93Duration of U spell\'94 is the individual\'92s completed unemployment spell, 1occmob\
is a binary indicator that takes the value of one (zero) if a worker changed (did not\
change) occupation at the end of his/her unemployment (non-employment) spell,\
the demographic controls include dummies for gender, education, marital status,\
race and age, \'93occ.dum\'94 denotes occupation identity dummies and #is the error\
term. Table 35 present the results of these regressions by progressively adding de-\
mographic and occupation identity controls. Columns (2) and (3) use the sample\
of completed durations among all unemployed workers, while Columns (4)-(8) re-\
stricts the sample to the completed durations of young and prime-aged unemployed\
workers.\
Column (2) shows the results from estimating (R4) without any controls other\
than the occupational mobility dummy. It shows that occupational movers take on\
average an additional 0.5 months to \uc0\u64257 nd a job. This difference arises as the average\
unemployment duration of occupational stayers is 3.6 months, while the average\
unemployment duration of occupational movers is 4.1 months. This difference is\
also economically signi\uc0\u64257 cant: it represents nearly half of the differences between the\
average unemployment spell duration in times of low unemployment (expansions)\
and times of high unemployment (recessions).79\
The rest of the columns show that the estimated difference between the average\
unemployment durations of occupational movers and stayers does not seem to be\
driven by composition effects. Column (3) reports the results from estimating (R4)\
when adding worker demographic characteristics. It shows that the estimated coef-\
\uc0\u64257 cient of the occupational mobility dummy hardly changes. Column (4) shows that\
the estimated coef\uc0\u64257 cient of the occupational mobility dummy also hardly changes\
79We consider times of high (low) unemployment as those quarters in which the HP de-trended\
(log) unemployment rate lies within the 33% highest (lowest) HP de-trended unemployment rates.\
The average unemployment length in those quarters with high unemployment is 4.4 months,\
whereas the average unemployment spell lasts 3.3 months in the quarters with the low unemploy-\
ment.\
175\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 177 of 269]\
Table 35: Unemployment Duration and Occupational Mobility\
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)\
all U all U all U U yng+prm U yng+prm U yng+prm U yng+prm U yng+prm\
Average Unemp. Duration\
All 3.91\
(.033)\
Occ. Stayers 3.646 3.646 3.627 3.627 3.627 3.627 3.627\
(.048) (.047) (.052) (.051) (.052) (.051) (.056)\
Occ. Movers 4.146 4.146 4.063 4.063 4.063 4.063 4.063\
(.045) (.045) (.048) (.048) (.048) (.048) (.055)\
Regression Coef\uc0\u64257 cients\
Coeff. Occ. Mob Dummy 0.500 .507 .499 .462 .472 .451 .262\
(.065) (.065) (.071) (.072) (.072) (.073) (.114)\
Occ. Mob x Prime-Age Dum. .336\
(.157)\
Worker\'92s Characteristics X X X X X X\
Age (prime-age dummy) X X X X X\
Source Occupation Dummies X X X\
Dest. Occupation Dummies X X X\
F-test Interactions (p-value)\
Age x Occ Mob 0.008 0.012 0.024\
Worker Char. x Occ Mob. 0.029 0.118 0.194 0.616 0.630 0.607\
Occupation x Occ Mob. 0.806 0.463 0.931 0.927\
Num. of Observations 10886 10886 10886 8887 8887 8887 8887 8887\
when restricting the sample to young and prime-aged workers and adding demo-\
graphic characteristics. In columns (5)-(7) we further add source and destination\
occupational identity dummies. Here we observe a drop of up to 5 percentage\
points in the difference between average unemployment durations of occupational\
movers and stayer. However, note that a difference of 0.45 months still remains\
economically signi\uc0\u64257 cant. This suggests that the difference in the average duration\
of the unemployment spell between occupation movers and stayers is not a result\
of workers moving out of (or into) occupations in which typically all workers take\
longer to \uc0\u64257 nd jobs. The increased unemployment duration of occupational movers\
thus seems to be associated with the act of moving itself. Therefore this evidence\
does not seem to support theories that are based on workers moving into a partic-\
ular subset of occupations in which newcomers need to spend relatively more time\
to \uc0\u64257 nd jobs because of, for example, re-training.\
Table 35, however, does show important differences across age groups. Column\
(8) reports that prime-aged workers take 0.33 months longer to \uc0\u64257 nd a job when\
they changed occupations than young occupational movers. In this case the role\
of other demographic characteristics factors appears more limited, once we con-\
trol for age and occupational identities. The bottom panel of Table 35 present sev-\
176\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 178 of 269]\
eral F-tests evaluating the equality of the occupational mobility dummies speci\uc0\u64257 c\
to demographic characteristics and occupational identities. These F-test highlight\
two important results. There is a statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant interaction between age\
and the additional unemployment duration of occupational movers. There is not a\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant interaction between the rest of the demographic or occupa-\
tional identity dummies and the additional unemployment duration of occupational\
movers.\
B.4.2.2 Business cycle patterns\
Table 36 extends the previous analysis and considers the cyclicality of the differ-\
ence between the completed unemployment durations of occupational movers and\
stayers. In Section 3.2 we documented that the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le is procycli-\
cal: at any duration the occupational mobility rate is higher in expansions than in\
recessions. We now show that ties in with a countercyclical distance between the\
unemployment durations of movers versus stayers. In particular, we estimate\
Duration of U =b0+boccmob 1occmob +bocc.un 1occmoburate +bdmdemog.ctrls +boccocc.dum +#,\
(R5)\
where the new explanatory variable is relative to equation (R4) is the interaction\
between occupational mobility and the unemployment rate. The latter appears as\
\'93diff resp. (responsiveness between) movers vs stayers\'94 in Table 36.\
Panel A of Table 36 considers as the measure of the business cycle the log of\
the aggregate unemployment rate, controlling for a linear time trend. The results\
presented in the \uc0\u64257 rst set of four columns use as the dependent variable spells in\
which the worker was classi\uc0\u64257 ed unemployed since loosing his/her job until \u64257 nding\
a new one (U-spells). The second set of four columns use as the dependent variable\
spells in which the worker was classi\uc0\u64257 ed at least one month as unemployed and\
the rest as out of the labour force since loosing his/her job until \uc0\u64257 nding a new one\
(NUN-spells). In each case, the \uc0\u64257 rst three columns consider all workers, while the\
last column restricts the sample to young and prime-aged workers.\
For both types of non-employment spells, we observe that when the aggregate\
unemployment rate increases the differences between the completed spell duration\
of occupational movers and stayers increases. That is, during recession (times when\
177\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 179 of 269]\
Table 36: Unemployment Duration and Occupational Mobility over the Business\
Cycle\
Panel A: Semi-Elasticity Un-/Nonemployment Duration with Log linearly detrended Unemployment rate\
Unemployment Duration NUN-spell duration\
Coef\uc0\u64257 cient (1) (2) (3) (4) (1) (2) (3) (4)\
Occupation Stayers x U. rate 1.65*** 1.64*** 1.63*** 1.64*** 1.07*** 1.15*** 1.13*** 1.14***\
(s.e) (.18) (.18) (.18) (.18) (.25) (.25) (.25) (.25)\
Occupation Movers x U. rate 2.04*** 2.03*** 2.04*** 2.03*** 1.72*** 1.81*** 1.81*** 1.81***\
(s.e) (.17) (.17) (.17) (.17) (.23) (.23) (.23) (.23)\
difference resp. mover-stayer 0.40** 0.40** 0.41** 0.40** 0.65** 0.66** 0.68** 0.67**\
(s.e) (.18) (.18) (.18) (.18) (.31) (.29) (.30) (.29)\
Worker\'92s Characteristics X X X X X X\
Source Occupation X X X X\
Destination Occupation X X X X\
Panel B: Semi-Elasticity Un-/Nonemployment Duration with HP-Filtered Log Unemployment rate\
Unemployment Duration NUN-spell duration\
Coef\uc0\u64257 cient (1) (2) (3) (4) (1) (2) (3) (4)\
Occupation Stayers x U. rate 2.47*** 2.47*** 2.49*** 2.48*** 1.345*** 1.591*** 1.608*** 1.616***\
(s.e) (.46) (.43) (.43) (.43) (.62) (.60) (.60) (.60)\
Occupation Movers x U. rate 3.20*** 3.14*** 3.21*** 3.16*** 3.516*** 3.67*** 3.705*** 3.691***\
(s.e) (0.56) (.54) (.54) (.54) (.60) (.60) (.60) (.59)\
difference resp. mover-stayer 0.73* 0.67* 0.72* 0.68* 2.17*** 2.08*** 2.098*** 2.074***\
(s.e) (.42) (.40) (.39) (.40) (.76) (.71) (.72) (.72)\
Worker\'92s Characteristics X X X X X X\
Source Occupation X X X X\
Destination Occupation X X X X\
Number of observations 9840 9840 9840 9840 15506 15506 15506 15506\
Notes: Standard errors in parenthesis.signi\uc0\u64257 cant at a 1% level;signi\u64257 cant at a 5%\
level;signi\uc0\u64257 cant at a 10% level. Controls: gender, age, age squared, number of years of\
education, family status.\
unemployment is high) occupational movers experience even stronger increases\
in unemployment duration than occupational stayers do. As shown across the\
columns, this result also holds (with rather stable coef\uc0\u64257 cients for U-spells) when\
controlling for demographic characteristics (including a quadratic in age) and dum-\
mies for the occupation of origin and destination.80Our results also show that the\
responsiveness of the difference in unemployment durations to the unemployment\
rate is stronger when considering NUN-spells.\
80Kroft et al. (2016) \uc0\u64257 nd that compositional shifts matter little for the increase in long-term un-\
employment in recessions; our results are related in the sense that we \uc0\u64257 nd that compositional shifts\
matter little for the increase in the duration difference between occupational movers and stayers in\
recessions. This increase is proportionally stronger than the drop in occupational mobility of the un-\
employed that is broadly shared across occupations. Hence the lengthening of spells of occupational\
movers contributes to the lengthening of unemployment and, in particular, long-term unemploy-\
ment across occupations in recessions.\
178\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 180 of 269]\
Panel B of Table 36 instead considers as the measure of the business cycle the\
cyclical component of the log of aggregate unemployment rate, where the cyclical\
component is obtained through an HP \uc0\u64257 lter. It is immediate from the table that the\
conclusions obtained from using this measure are the same as the ones obtained\
when using the linearly de-trended logged unemployment rate.\
B.4.2.3 Summary\
In Section 1 we have documented that at any unemployment duration, occupational\
movers largely move across all occupations. Here we have shown that conditional\
on a given occupation, an occupational mover takes longer to \uc0\u64257 nd a job than an oc-\
cupational stayer and that this difference increases in recessions. It is important to\
highlight that this does not mean that different occupations exhibit the same aver-\
age unemployment duration. Indeed, we do \uc0\u64257 nd differences in the estimated coef\u64257 -\
cients of the source and destination occupation dummies (see Section 1.5), suggest-\
ing that some occupations do lead all workers (occupational movers and stayers) to\
\uc0\u64257 nd jobs fasters than workers in other occupations (in line with Wiczer, 2015). What\
our results suggest is that even though a worker might have experienced job loss\
in an occupation that exhibits short or long overall unemployment durations, this\
worker will take on average longer to \uc0\u64257 nd a job if he/she is to change occupations\
at re-employment and even longer if he/she changes in a recession.\
B.5 Occupational mobility in the PSID and the CPS\
We now turn to investigate some of our main \uc0\u64257 ndings using alternative data sources:\
the Current Population Survey (CPS) and the Panel Study of Income Dynamics\
(PSID). Analysing occupational mobility through the CPS is helpful even though\
these data is not corrected for measurement error. In particular, the CPS has the\
advantage of providing the longest, uninterrupted series of occupational mobility,\
even spanning into 2021. This allows us to evaluate whether the breaks in the SIPP\
time series have a meaningful effect on the extent and cyclicality of gross occupa-\
tional mobility. For this purpose and because the individual-worker panel dimen-\
sion of the CPS is much shorter relative to the SIPP , we only use these data to investi-\
179\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 181 of 269]\
gate the average gross mobility rate. In Section 2 of the main paper we conclude that\
the CPS and the (uncorrected) SIPP gross mobility series have very similar degrees\
of procyclicality. Another advantage of using the CPS is that it is easily accessible.\
We use the CPS data available via IPUMS.81\
The PSID is also useful for several reasons: (i) It provides a longer panel di-\
mension than the SIPP . (ii) We can compare our main results with the analysis of\
Kambourov and Manovskii (2008), who use this data set to provide a highly in\uc0\u64258 u-\
ential analysis of the occupational mobility patterns found in the US labor market.\
Therefore, in constructing our sample we closely follow Kambourov and Manovskii\
(2008, 2009). The details of this sample are described in the \'93Data Construction\'94 sec-\
tion of this appendix. (iii) It allows us to evaluate the extend of coding error using\
retrospective coding as an alternative method. In particular, we use the PSID retro-\
spective occupation-industry supplementary data \uc0\u64257 les, which contain the re-coding\
the PSID staff performed on the occupational mobility records obtained during the\
1968-1980 period. Since the 1981-1997 records were not re-coded and collected un-\
der independent interviewing, the earlier period can be used to construct \'93clean\'94\
occupational mobility rates and to analyse the effect of measurement error at the\
coding stage.\
B.5.1 Occupational mobility in the CPS\
B.5.1.1 Extent of occupational mobility\
To derive the average gross occupational mobility rate among the unemployed in\
the CPS we compare the occupation coded immediately before the worker became\
unemployed with the occupational code at re-employment. From this set of work-\
ers, the gross mobility rate is then computed as the proportion of occupational\
movers among all those who went through unemployment and subsequently found\
a job. We focus on the 22 major occupational groups of the 2010 SOC, which are\
provided homogenized for the entire 1976-2021 period by IPUMS. Using the full ex-\
tent of our sample, we obtain an average occupational mobility rate of 47.5%. One\
concern could be that since in 1994 the CPS underwent a signi\uc0\u64257 cant re-design, the\
81Our STATA do-\uc0\u64257 le is available upon request, while the underlying data can be download from\
IPUMS, at https://cps.ipums.org/cps/\
180\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 182 of 269]\
occupational mobility rate should be affected. However, computing this rate for the\
period 1994-2021 yields 46.6%, hardly changing the extent of mobility.\
A perhaps more important concern is that in this sample we are including work-\
ers in temporary layoffs, who are very likely to return to their previous occupations\
and employers (see Fujita and Moscarini, 2017). This would bias downward the\
occupational mobility rate. To leave out temporary layoffs, we drop those unem-\
ployed classi\uc0\u64257 ed as \'93job loser/on layoff\'94 in the reported reasons for unemploy-\
ment. This category corresponds to individuals who are on temporary layoff , with\
the expectation to be recalled with a speci\uc0\u64257 c date or within 6 months. Note that in\
this case we only use data from 1994 onwards as after the 1994 redesign we have\
available a homogenous series for \'93reasons for unemployment\'94, without discrete\
jumps associated with shifting de\uc0\u64257 nitions/survey questions. Once we drop these\
temporary layoff workers, the average occupational mobility rate indeed increases\
to 56.9%. This value is very similar to the 55.0% we obtained from the uncorrected\
SIPP when using the 21 major occupational groups of the 2000 SOC and dropping\
the temporary layoffs (See Table 25 in Section 1 of this Appendix).\
B.5.1.2 Cyclicality of occupational mobility\
Figure 50a plots the time series of the average gross occupational mobility rate of\
workers hired from unemployment. To smooth out some of the noise in the quar-\
terly observations, we present a lowess smoothed version in such a way that busi-\
ness cycle patterns remain visible. We also depict this series HP trend (\uc0\u64257 ltered with\
parameter 1600). The redesign of the CPS in the mid-1990s means that the pre-1994\
series might not be fully comparable to the post-1994 series. Following a conser-\
vative approach, we have HP \uc0\u64257 ltered the entire 1976-2021 series but then removed\
observations for the period 1992-1995 to stay clear of the 1994 design break. To cap-\
ture business cycle conditions, Figure 50a depicts the unemployment rate (and its\
HP trend with parameter 1600).\
A comparison of these series reveals a procyclical pattern in occupational mo-\
bility. When the occupational mobility rate is above its trend, unemployment is\
typically below its trend. This is clearly visible around the last three recessions (in-\
cluding the Covid recession), but also in the double-dip recession in early 1980s.\
181\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 183 of 269]\
.35 .4 .45 .5 .55\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed0 5 10 15Unemployment Rate (Pct)\
1975q1 1980q1 1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1 2020q1\
HP trend U rate U rate\
HP trend Occ. Mob. Occ. Mobility (smooth)(a) Occup. mobility - smoothed series\
-.15 -.1 -.05 0 .05\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-.5 0 .5 1Deviation From HP trend (1600)\
1975q1\
1980q1\
1985q1\
1990q1\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
Quarter\
HPF Occ. Mob. Rate (smooth) HPF occ. mob. (raw)\
HPF U. rate (b) Occup. mobility - deviations from HP trend\
-.05 0 .05\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-.5 0 .5 1Unemployment Rate (x100)\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
quarter\
HP Unemployment Rate HP Occ Mob (smooth)\
HP trend\
(c) Occup. mobility - no temp layoffs\
Figure 50: Occupational mobility of the unemployed - CPS\
Figure 50b shows a similar conclusion using the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered unemployment and\
occupational mobility rates for the full sample. A reasonable concern is that the ob-\
served occupational mobility in the previous graphs is affected by an increased im-\
portance of temporary layoffs in recessions. Figure 50c considers the series without\
temporary layoffs and once again shows a procyclical occupational mobility rate.\
To further investigates the robustness of our \uc0\u64257 ndings, in Figures 51a and 51b we\
only consider the time series from 1994 up to the fourth quarter of 2019. In this\
way we focus on the period after the 1994 re-design and drop the large decrease in\
occupational mobility observed during the Covid recession. While this somewhat\
changes the de-trended behavior in the last \uc0\u64257 ve years of the series, it does not seem\
to meaningfully affect its procyclicality. In Figures 51c and 51d we re-do this exer-\
cise but now using bandpass \uc0\u64257 ltering instead of the HP-\u64257 lter to better deal with the\
182\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 184 of 269]\
-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-2 -1 0 1 2Unemployment Rate (x100)\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
quarter\
HP Unemployment Rate HP Occ Mob(smooth)\
HP Occ. Mobility Unemp.(raw)(a) HP-\uc0\u64257 lter: Occup. mobility - up to 2019q4\
-.05 0 .05\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-2 -1 0 1 2Unemployment Rate (x100)\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
quarter\
HP Unemployment Rate HP Occ Mob(smooth)\
HP Occ. Mobility Unemp.(raw) (b) HP-\uc0\u64257 lter: Occup. mobility - up to 2019q4, no\
temp layoffs\
-.02 -.01 0 .01 .02 .03\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-2 -1 0 1 2Unemployment Rate (x100)\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
quarter\
BP-filtered Unemployment Rate\
Bandpass-filtered Occ. Mobility Unemp.\
(c) Bandpass \uc0\u64257 lter: Occup. mobility - up to 2019q4\
-.04 -.02 0 .02 .04\
Occupational Mobility of Unemployed-2 -1 0 1 2Unemployment Rate (x100)\
1995q1\
2000q1\
2005q1\
2010q1\
2015q1\
2020q1\
quarter\
BP-filtered Unemployment Rate\
Bandpass-filtered Occ. Mobility Unemp. (d) Bandpass \uc0\u64257 lter: Occup. mobility - up to 2019q4,\
no temp layoffs\
Figure 51: Occupational Mobility under Alternative Filtering\
noise in the raw data. If anything, the bandpass \uc0\u64257 ltered series depicts even stronger\
procyclicality in the occupational mobility series, with clearly visible drops in occu-\
pational mobility during and in the aftermath of the 2001 and 2008 recessions.\
Finally, Table 37 investigates the cyclicality of HP and bandpass \uc0\u64257 ltered obser-\
vations without additional smoothing. In particular, we regress the quarterly ob-\
servations of the de-trended log gross occupational mobility rate on a constant and the\
de-trended log unemployment rate. We report the coef\uc0\u64257 cient and standard error\
associated with the latter. We observe that, after taking out the HP-trend (with pa-\
rameter 1600), occupational mobility decreases in times of higher unemployment.\
This relationship is statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant when using all the sample period or after\
the 1994 CPS re-design (with and without temporary layoffs). Using the bandpass\
183\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 185 of 269]\
Table 37: OLS regression - Cycalility of occupational mobility\
Level and Responsiveness of Mobility to the Unemployment Rate\
Level Cyclical responsiveness\
Ave. HP Filtered (1600) Band-Pass Filtered\
Mob. up to \'9221 up to \'9119 up to \'9221 up to \'9219\
Quarterly Occupational Mobility Rate, Hires from U (2010 MOG)\
All unemployed, 1976- 0.475 -0.223???-0.105??-0.105???-0.104???\
(0.030) (0.039) (0.016) (0.017)\
All unemployed, 1994- 0.464 -0.254???-0.103??-0.096???-0.104???\
(0.036) (0.050) (0.018) (0.019)\
Unemployed, not on temporary layoffs, 1994- 0.569 -0.044-0.091?-0.063??-0.085???\
(0.024) (0.037) (0.019) (0.017)\
???p-value<0.001;??p-value<0.01;?p-value<0.05;p-value<0.1.\
\uc0\u64257 ltered series con\u64257 rms these results.\
B.5.2 Occupational mobility in the PSID\
B.5.2.1 Extent and cyclicality\
Using these data, Supplementary Appendix A.3 documents that when condition-\
ing the sample only on those who changed employers through non-employment\
(ENE ), the gross occupational mobility rates are high across different levels of ag-\
gregation. In particular, the raw data shows that the average occupational mobil-\
ity rates among the non-employed are 39.6%, 44.7% and 56.2% at a one-, two- and\
three-digit levels, respectively, for the period 1970-1980. The average occupational\
mobility rates for these workers for the period 1981-1997 are 41.1%, 47.4% and 60.1%\
at a one-, two- and three-digit levels, respectively.\
To compare these mobility rates with the occupational mobility rate among all\
workers (employer movers and stayers pooled together), we divide the numerator\
of the ENE rate by the total number of employed workers at year t(the denominator\
of our overall rate). In this case we \uc0\u64257 nd that the occupational mobility rates through\
non-employment are 2.5%, 2.8% and 3.5% for the period 1970-1980 and 3.2%, 3.7%\
and 4.7% for the period 1981-1997, at a one-, two- and three-digit levels, respec-\
tively. These rates are consistent with the results of Kambourov and Manovskii\
184\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 186 of 269]\
(2008), who show that unemployed workers contribute 2.5% to the year-to-year oc-\
cupational mobility rate of a pooled sample of employer movers and stayers based\
on a two-digit level. It is important to note, however, that the information presented\
in Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) does not allow us to infer that their 2.5% esti-\
mate is consistent with mobility rates among the non-employed of over 40%. To\
arrive to this conclusion one has to re-do Kambourov and Manovskii\'92s (2008) anal-\
ysis as done here.\
Table 6 in Supplementary Appendix A.3 shows the marginal effects obtained\
from probit regressions to further investigate the cyclicality of gross occupational\
mobility.82In these regressions the dependent variable takes the value of one if the\
worker changed occupation and zero otherwise. We control for age, education, full\
or part-time work, occupation of origin, region of residence, aggregate and regional\
unemployment rates, a quadratic time trend, number of children and the impact\
of retrospective coding.83Our results show that gross occupational mobility of the\
non-employed is also procyclical.\
These results corroborate the ones obtained using the SIPP . Hence, we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
across data sets the probability of an occupational transition among the unemployed\
(or non-employed) is high and increases in expansions and decreases in recessions.\
The procyclicality of gross occupational mobility among the unemployed comple-\
ments the result found by Kambourov and Manovskii (2008), who show that the\
year-to-year occupational mobility rate of a pooled sample of employer movers and\
stayers is procyclical. In principle there is no reason to expect that the procyclical\
pattern these authors \uc0\u64257 nd in the overall occupational mobility rate would translate\
to the occupational mobility rate for the unemployed. Indeed, as discussed above,\
the latter contributes a small proportion to the overall rate.\
82These estimates are obtained using the personal weights provided by each survey, but similar\
results are obtained when using the unweighted data. We also obtained very similar results when\
using the linear probability model on weighted and unweighted data and when using robust stan-\
dard errors and clustering standard errors at a yearly level.\
83As in Kambourov and Manovskii (2008), the education indicator variable takes the value of one\
when the worker has more than 12 years of education and zero otherwise. This is to avoid small\
sample problems if we were to divide educational attainment in more categories. The regional un-\
employment rates are computed using US states unemployment rates.\
185\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 187 of 269]\
B.5.2.2 Repeat mobility\
In the SIPP analysis we found that a large proportion of workers who experienced\
an occupational change in their previous non-employment spell also experienced\
an occupational change at the end of their current non-employment spell. Similarly,\
we found that a large proportion of workers who did not change occupation in their\
previous non-employment spell experienced an occupational change at the end of\
their current non-employment spell.\
A potential concern with the SIPP structure is that it does not follow workers for\
a long enough period. While in the calibrated model, we deal with this by imposing\
an analog restriction on the time window of measurement, such that the data and\
model statistics capture exactly the same type of repeat mobility, one would still\
want to extrapolate repeat mobility patterns to apply more generally (to longer pe-\
riods of workers\'92 labour market history). This extrapolation might generate a bias\
in the repeat occupational mobility statistics as the statistics in the SIPP will dispro-\
portionally capture: (i) those workers with shorter non-employment spells, even\
though we leave enough time towards the end of the SIPP panel to try to capture\
longer non-employment spells; and (ii) those workers with short employment du-\
rations between consecutive non-employment spells. To analyse the extent of this\
bias we re-compute the repeat mobility statistics using the PSID based on the sam-\
ple used to construct the ENE occupational mobility rate depicted in Figure 3.b in\
Supplementary Appendix A.3. Since these data sets allow us to follow the same\
workers for a longer period of time, we expect (i) and (ii) to have a much smaller\
impact.\
Table 38 shows the repeat mobility statistics at a one-, two- and three-digit level\
of aggregation, using the 1970 SOC. The proportions are based on weighted data,\
but similar proportions are obtained using unweighted data. For each level of ag-\
gregation we divide the sample by whether a worker was an occupational stayer or\
an occupational mover after the \uc0\u64257 rst non-employment spell. We then compute the\
proportion of stayers (movers) who, after a subsequent non-employment spell, did\
not change occupation and the proportion who changed occupation. For each level\
of aggregation, the \uc0\u64257 rst two rows show the proportions for stayer- stayer and stayer-\
mover. These proportions add up to one. Similarly, the second two rows show the\
186\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 188 of 269]\
Table 38: Repeat Mobility - PSID 1968-1997\
All workers Male workers\
Occ. Mobility Occ.+Ind. Mobility Occ. Mobility Occ.+Ind. Mobility\
1-digit\
Stayer - Stayer 67.3 77.2 67.4 77.0\
Stayer - Mover 32.7 22.8 32.6 23.0\
Mover - Stayer 46.9 58.8 45.8 57.8\
Mover - Mover 53.1 41.2 54.2 42.2\
2-digits\
Stayer - Stayer 61.9 69.9 62.8 71.0\
Stayer - Mover 38.1 30.1 37.2 29.0\
Mover - Stayer 40.6 49.7 40.5 48.8\
Mover - Mover 59.4 50.2 59.5 51.2\
3-digits\
Stayer - Stayer 54.3 61.2 57.8 64.1\
Stayer - Mover 45.7 38.8 42.2 35.9\
Mover - Stayer 25.9 33.2 27.5 34.8\
Mover - Mover 74.1 66.8 72.5 65.2\
Note: Total number of observations among all workers (male) = 3,261 (2,467).\
proportions for mover-stayer and mover-mover. Further, the columns labelled \'93Occ.\
Mobility\'94 consider workers who only changed occupations. Since these statistics are\
based on raw (uncorrected) data, the propensity to change occupations would be bi-\
ased upward. As a way to deal with the latter, we consider simultaneous occupation\
and industry mobility and re-compute the repeat mobility statistics. These are pre-\
sented in the columns labelled \'93Occ. + Ind. Mobility\'94. As discussed in Section 1\
of this appendix, conditioning on simultaneous occupation and industry mobility\
provides an alternative way to correct for coding errors. In particular, we consider\
a worker to be an occupational mover if and only if he/she reported a change in\
occupation and a simultaneous change in industry at the same level of aggregation,\
where industry changes are based on the 1970 census industries codes.84\
The PSID shows a very similar picture to the one obtained from the SIPP . There\
is a high proportion of workers who changed occupation after a non-employment\
spell and once again changed occupations after a subsequent non-employment spell.\
84These repeat mobility statistics are calculated based on up to \uc0\u64257 ve consecutive non-employment\
cycles, where a cycle is constructed as non-employment, employment, non-employment, employ-\
ment sequence. The number of observations in our repeat mobility sample is then the product of\
the number of cycles per individual. The majority of workers, however, experience only one cycle,\
which make up for 80% of the total number of observations. We \uc0\u64257 nd that our results do not change\
if we were to compute these same statistics based only on workers\'92 \uc0\u64257 rst cycle.\
187\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 189 of 269]\
Out of all those workers who were occupational movers after a non-employment\
spell in the raw data, between 53% (at a one-digit level) and 74% (at a three-digit\
level) moved occupations once again after a subsequent non-employment spell.\
There is also an important proportion of workers who did not change occupation\
after a non-employment spell, but did change occupations after a subsequent non-\
employment spell. Out of all those workers who were stayers after a non-employment\
spell, between 33% (at a one-digit level) to 48% (at a three-digit level) moved occu-\
pations after the subsequent non-employment spell.\
Conditioning simultaneous occupation and industry changes does not drasti-\
cally change these results. In this case, out of all those workers who were occu-\
pational movers after a non-employment spell, between 41% (at a one-digit level)\
and 67% (at a three-digit level) moved occupations once again after a subsequent\
non-employment spell. Out of all those workers who were stayers after a non-\
employment spell, between 23% (at a one-digit level) to 33% (at a three-digit level)\
moved occupations after the subsequent non-employment spell. That is, condition-\
ing on simultaneous occupation and industry changes, decreases by about 10 per-\
centage points the occupational mobility rates, but still shows a high propensity for\
repeat mobility among the non-employed.\
B.6 Self-reported retrospective occupational mobility\
In this section we propose an alternative way to analyse the occupational mobil-\
ity patterns of the non-employed that is not subject to coding errors. In particular,\
we use information on workers\'92 self-reported employer and occupational tenure\
obtained from the SIPP core panels and topical modules. For the majority of SIPP\
panels the \uc0\u64257 rst topical module asks \'93for how many [months/years] has [the worker]\
done the kind of work [he] does in this [current] job\'94, or a variation of it.85In addi-\
tion, it records the start date with the current employer andthe start and end dates\
of the most recently \uc0\u64257 nished employer spell previous to the panel.86\
85This question is asked in topical module in the 1984, 1987, 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993 panels. In the\
1996, 2001, 2004 and 2008, the question is in the core waves and makes explicit reference to the entire\
working life, while invoking \'91occupation\'92/\'91line of work\'92 rather than \'91kind of work\'92: \'93Considering\
entire working life, how many years has [the worker] been in this occupation or line of work?\'94.\
86The question referring to the current employer is \'93when did [the worker] start working for [ex-\
plicit employer name]\'94. The wording means that employer recalls are not (or, at least, should not\
188\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 190 of 269]\
Using this information we restrict attention to those workers whose completed\
non-employment spells lasted between one and twelve months. This restriction\
helps us capture a group of workers who have not lost their attachment to the labour\
market even though they might be categorised as non-participants at some point\
during the spell87Below, we also focus on subsets of this group that e.g. are ob-\
served with periods of unemployment. To determine whether or not one of these\
workers changed occupations, we compare the employer tenure with the occupa-\
tional tenure information. In particular, out of all those workers who found their\
current job out of non-employment, we label a worker as an occupational mover\
when his/her occupational tenure equals (or is very close to) his/her employer\
tenure and as an occupational stayer when his/her occupational tenure is (suf\uc0\u64257 -\
ciently) greater than his/her employer tenure.88We then compute the occupational\
mobility rate by dividing the number of non-employed workers who re-gained em-\
ployment and changed occupation over the number of non-employed workers who\
re-gained employment.\
B.6.1 The extent of self-reported occupational mobility\
Table 39 shows the extent of occupational mobility of the non-employed using four\
different samples. The \uc0\u64257 rst column (overall) considers all employed workers who (i)\
went through a spell of non-employment before starting with the current employer,\
provided that the non-employment spell occurred during the last ten years; (ii) have\
spent more than two years in the labor force, (iii) have \uc0\u64257 nished their previous job\
at least one year after entering the labor market and (iv) have held their previous\
be) recorded as starts of employment. In the 1996-2008 panels, the question also refer to \'93... the\
month/year when [worker\'92s name] began employment with [employer name]\'94.\
87For most of the panels we obtain the duration of the non-employment spell by subtracting the\
date in which the job with the previous employer ended from the day the re-employment job started\
with the current employer. In the 1984 panel the duration of the non-employment spell is asked\
directly. In the 2004 and 2008 panels we can only observe a lower bound of the non-employment\
spell as we only have information on the year the job with the previous employer ended. For this\
reason some of our analysis (see below) will not use the 2004 and 2008 panels. Note that the mobility\
reported in the 1984 panel lies\
88When occupational tenure does not exactly match the employer tenure due to, potentially, recall\
errors, we consider several plausible adjustments to identify occupational movers and stayers. We\
discuss these in the next section.\
189\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 191 of 269]\
job for at least twelve months.89These restrictions are made to focus on those who\
have had meaningful employment before any spell of non-employment, so we are\
considering changes of occupation, rather than a start within an occupation at the\
beginning of working life. These restrictions also help with inferring occupational\
mobility from occupational tenure.\
The second column (attached workers) restricts the \'93overall\'94 sample to those\
spells in which the worker entered non-employment because they were laid off, dis-\
charged, a temporary job ended, indicated dissatisfaction with the previous job, or\
because of a non-family/non-personal (\'93other\'94) reason.90We consider these work-\
ers to be attached to the labor market as they did not leave their jobs for reasons\
that indicate leaving the labor force.91Given that the above restrictions could not be\
applied across all panels, these two samples only rely on the topical modules of the\
1984, 1987-88 and 1990-1993 SIPP panels.\
The third column (recent hires) considers those workers whose re-employment\
job started within six months prior to the time of interview and had a job tenure\
of at least 12 months before transiting into non-employment. The last restriction\
enable us to more con\uc0\u64257 dently distinguish the current employer\'92s tenure from the\
sum of the current and previous employer\'92s tenure, which reduces ambiguous cases\
when inferring occupational mobility from self-reported occupational tenure. The\
cost, obviously, is a smaller sample of workers, as logically we can include only\
workers with a low job tenure at the moment that the retrospective occupational\
questions are asked. Note also that this sample is selected differently, columns (c)\
naturally samples more those in the population who are more likely to experience\
89We have excluded workers who have imputed start and dates of the previous job in the data, or\
an imputed start date of the current job. In case ambiguity remains about occupational changing, we\
have excluded these workers as well. If we take a strict approach to assignment of mobility within\
this subset of workers, mobility is closer to 50% than in the unambiguous group. Hence, we consider\
the exclusion of ambiguous observations to yield conservative levels of self-reported occupational\
mobility.\
90Including \'93Other\'94 (but excl.: \'93other, family reasons\'94) does not change our conclusions.\
91For the \'93overall\'94 and \'93attached\'94 samples, we only count an occupational move at the end of the\
non-employment spell when the current job started within six months of the start of the occupation\
and the previous job lasted for at least one year. For a worker to be considered an occupational\
mover in these samples, the current job starting date must be within a six months interval around\
the implied start of the occupation and the previous job must have lasted at least a year. Further,\
given that occupational tenures above twelve months are reported in full years it was dif\uc0\u64257 cult to\
assess an occupational change when a relatively long tenure in the current job is preceded by a short\
tenure in the previous job. We take a conservative approach and categorise the latter cases as a\
employer move without an occupational change.\
190\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 192 of 269]\
Table 39: Self-reported occupational mobility rates\
(a) (b) (c) (d)\
Overall Attached workers Recent hires Hires after U\
1984-1993 1984-1993 1984-2001 1984-2001\
All workers 0.446 0.434 0.372 0.397\
(0.007) (0.008) (0.013) (0.019)\
Males 0.467 0.437 0.393 0.439\
(0.010) (0.012) (0.018) (0.026)\
Females 0.429 0.433 0.352 0.343\
(0.010) (0.012) (0.017) (0.026)\
HS dropouts 0.476 0.476 0.409 0.507\
(0.021) (0.025) (0.032) (0.046)\
HS grads 0.478 0.486 0.405 0.405\
(0.013) (0.015) (0.021) (0.031)\
Some college 0.437 0.413 0.342 0.347\
(0.014) (0.017) (0.024) (0.037)\
College grads 0.412 0.380 0.330 0.350\
(0.013) (0.015) (0.026) (0.042)\
20-30 years old 0.555 0.548 0.441 0.476\
(0.015) (0.018) (0.025) (0.039)\
35-55 years old 0.387 0.385 0.323 0.347\
(0.010) (0.012) (0.018) (0.027)\
Standard Errors in parentheses. Sample weights: using person\
weights of SIPP panels within panel, normalized such that average\
weight of observations across all panels is one, while cross-sectionally\
weights make the sample representative).\
non-employment spells. The fourth column (\'93Hires after U\'94) uses an even more\
restricted sample of \'93recent hires\'94 for whom the employment status is observed\
within the core waves and who were unemployed for at least one month prior to\
re-gaining employment. Since the retrospective question is asked in the early waves\
of a panel, this leaves relatively little room to observe the unemployment status of\
those workers in the core wave dataset (which is a requirement to be included in\
this group). For these samples we use the 1984 up to 2001 panels.92\
92For the most recent two panels, 2004 and 2008, we can \uc0\u64257 nd a lower bound and an upper bound\
on the non-employment spell, but typically not a precise monthly duration. When restricting the\
1996 and 2001 panels to provide the same amount of information as the 2004 and 2008 panels (by\
191\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 193 of 269]\
For a worker to be considered as an occupational mover, the current job starting\
date must be within a one month interval around the implied start of the occupation,\
or before.93Across all these sample we once again \uc0\u64257 nd that non-employed workers\'92\
self-reported occupational mobility is high. Combining retrospective employer and\
occupational tenure information implies that roughly about 40% of non-employed\
workers accept jobs in a new line of work. Average mobility of recently hired work-\
ers in columns (c) and (d), which uses recall of more recent non-employment spells,\
and allows us to distinguish tenures more clearly, is broadly in line with columns (a)\
and (b), where the former have a reported mobility in 35-42% range, versus 42-46%\
for all workers in columns (a) and (b). Retrospective measures of occupational mo-\
bility do subtly differ from the ones derived by comparing occupational codes, \uc0\u64257 rst\
because they re\uc0\u64258 ect the workers\'92 own assessment of \'92line of work\'92/occupations,\
rather than the Census\'92, but also because the occupational tenure in question can\
reasonably refer to jobs even before the previous job. Nevertheless, we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
the extent of occupational mobility obtained from individuals reporting a \'93different\
kind/line of work\'94 aligns very well with the adjusted rate of occupational mobil-\
ity for the non-employed obtained by comparing the major occupations of the 2000\
SOC or the 1990 SOC described in Section 1.1 of this appendix. This con\uc0\u64257 rms that,\
after a gap in their employment history, about two out of \uc0\u64257 ve workers ends up in a\
different line of work than they had before.94\
Table 39 shows that the retrospective occupational mobility rate is also high\
across several demographic groups. In particular, both male and female workers\
have mobility rates around 40%, with an average mobility rate across the four sam-\
ples that is higher for males. Interestingly, in some measures (for example in column\
(d)) this gap appears meaningful, but on the other hand is smaller when considering\
women who were classi\uc0\u64257 ed as \'93attached\'94 (in column (b)). Occupational mobility\
ignoring start and end months of the previous jobs), we \uc0\u64257 nd that the loss of information appears to\
be small.\
93Here we use a one month \'91margin\'92 to re\uc0\u64258 ect one month of rounding error. The impact of includ-\
ing an additional margin of one month is small, ranging from 0 to 3 percentage points change in the\
occupational mobility rate at most. Below we use an alternative measure to check the robustness of\
our measure.\
94The retrospective question, is consistent with the interpretation of occupational mobility in the\
main paper, where an occupational change is a start of a new career. In the calibration, this occurs in\
44% of unemployment spells, according to the retrospective question, workers start something they\
have not done before in about 40% of the cases.\
192\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 194 of 269]\
upon re-employment is substantial for workers from all education groups, though\
again we can discern an education gradient, with college workers more often taking\
re-employment in a line of work they held before. Finally, we \uc0\u64257 nd that the perhaps\
clearest differences in the occupational mobility rates by demographic characteris-\
tics is across age groups, where the mobility rate decreases signi\uc0\u64257 cantly as workers\
get older. Nevertheless, the mobility rate of prime-aged workers also remains high,\
between 32.5 and 39%.95\
It is important to note some differences across panels. For example, how the du-\
ration of non-employment was solicited: directly as a duration or implied by the\
starting and end dates of a job. In the 1984 panel individuals are asked explicitly\
for the duration of the non-employment spell and the tenure on the job, rather than\
reporting start and end months of employment, as done in more recent panels. An-\
other difference is that the labor market topical module is asked in the interview\
of wave 2 between 1987 and 1991 panels, but from the 1992 panel onwards in the\
interview of wave 1. The SIPP was redesigned in 1996 panel and carried over to\
2001 panel. Generally, a large part the new design of 1996 is carried forward till\
the 2008 panel. However, in the labor market topical module there are changes that\
lead the 2004 and 2008 panels to differ from the 1996 and 2001 panels and make it\
much harder to determine the combination of non-employment duration and occu-\
pational mobility. For this reason these former panels are omitted from the analysis.\
The setup of the labor market history questionnaire is perhaps the most distinct in\
the 1984 panel; however, it also contains the most direct question on the employ-\
ment gap. Implied occupational mobility in this panel is somewhat higher than in\
other panels, while its sample size is relatively large relative to the other panels in\
the 1980s. Excluding it from the analysis means that the average implied occupa-\
tional mobility across the remaining panels is lower, typically, by 1-4 percentage\
points. For example, mobility of all workers (pooled) in the \uc0\u64257 rst column, drops to\
42.9%. Nevertheless, even excluding this panel, mobility is high, and broadly shared\
across many demographic groups.\
95The relative drop across age groups is somewhat stronger in our retrospective measure than in\
the occupational mobility based on comparing codes, falling between 12 to 16 percentage points\
from young to prime-aged workers. A potential explanation is the difference between comparing\
occupational codes after an unemployment spell with the occupational code just before, rather than\
asking whether, at some point in their entire working life, workers have had a line of work similar to\
the current one. The relevance of this difference, intuitively, seems larger for older workers.\
193\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 195 of 269]\
B.6.2 Self-reported occupational mobility and non-employment spell\
duration\
We now turn to analyse the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le that arises from the retrospec-\
tive measure of occupational mobility. Table 40 reports the results of linear proba-\
bility models based on the implied occupational mobility rates obtained from self-\
reported occupational tenure as a function of the time in non-employment between\
jobs and a set of controls. These include an indicator variable for gender, a quadratic\
in age and categorical variables for the completed duration of the non-employment\
spell (where we take 1-4 months as the baseline category) and for workers\'92 edu-\
cational levels (where we take high school graduate as the baseline category). We\
also add controls for previous and current occupational tenure and occupation of\
origin and destination, include a linear time trend and grouped-panel \uc0\u64257 xed effects\
to control for differences between SIPP panel setups.\
In panel A we consider the retrospective information on the (most recent) spell\
of non-employment of all workers, if they have gone through non-employment af-\
ter entering the labor force. We observe that self-reported occupational mobility\
increases with non-employment duration, roughly at a rate of one percentage point\
per month. These results are well in line with the results presented in the main text,\
for occupational mobility according to changes in the occupational code.\
In the \uc0\u64257 rst column we relate the probability of self-reported change in occupation\
to the reported time between employment. We only allow for a linear time trend in\
occupational mobility. In the second column, we add controls for gender, race, a\
quartic in age and marital status, and grouped panel \uc0\u64257 xed effects. This hardly af-\
fects the slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le. In the third column, we include the\
occupational code on the job previous to the non-employment spell. Interestingly,\
the earlier panels of the SIPP , up to 1993, include both a question on occupational\
tenure and the occupation code of this previous job. Controlling for the \'91source\'92 oc-\
cupation reduces slightly the point estimate of the mobility - duration pro\uc0\u64257 le, but\
not in a signi\uc0\u64257 cant way. In the fourth and \u64257 fth columns we repeat these regressions\
for the smaller subset of workers who do not separate for \'93personal reasons\'94, i.e.\
our \'93attached\'94 sample discussed above. Again, we see that a broadly similar pic-\
ture appearing, again without much difference when controlling for demographics,\
194\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 196 of 269]\
Table 40: Self-reported Occupational Mobility and Non-employment Duration\
Panel A. Retrospective Occ. Mobility of All Workers (1984-1993 panels)\
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)\
Overall Overall Overall Attached Attached\
no obs. 5219 5219 5170 3656 3622\
NE duration 0.0109*** 0.0112*** 0.0096*** 0.0095*** 0.0094***\
(s.e.) (0.0024) (0.0024) (0.0023) (0.0028) (0.0028)\
linear time trend X X X X X\
panel FEs X X X\
demogr. controls X X X\
source occup. X X\
Panel B. Retrospective Occ. Mobility of Recent Hires (1984-2001 panels)\
(vi) (vii) (viii) (ix) (x)\
All Hires All Hires Hires after U Hires After U Hires After U?\
no. obs 1549 1549 692 692 679\
NE duration 0.0062 0.0068* 0.0110* 0.0107* 0.0114*\
(s.e.) (0.0039) (0.0039) (0.0062) (0.0061) (0.0063)\
linear time trend X X X X X\
panel FEs X X\
demogr. controls X X\
Levels of signi\uc0\u64257 cance:p<0.1,p<0.05,p<0.01. Observation weighted\
by person weights within panel, by number of total observations per panel\
across panels. \'93Recent Hires\'94 means hired within 6 months of interview. \'93Hires\
After U?\'94 refers to an alternative measure of occupational mobility, where ev-\
eryone with occupational tenure weakly less than current job tenure (allowing\
for one month of ambiguity) is a mover, while everyone with an occupational\
tenure larger than current job tenure + 4 months is a stayer.\
grouped panel \uc0\u64257 xed effects and source occupations.\
In panel B, we concentrate on recent hires, i.e. those who started a job, after non-\
employment, within 6 months of the interview on their labor market history. We\
apply the same sample selection criteria as discussed above. The smaller sample size\
means that the gradients of mobility with duration are more imprecisely estimated.\
Nevertheless, a similar broad (but less precise) conclusion can be drawn. There is a\
positive slope of mobility with duration that is not too steep, with point estimates\
well in line with panel A and the occupational code-driven mobility in the main\
text. Although care has to be taken, given the size of the standard errors, we observe\
that the point estimates of the slope of the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le of all workers\
hired after non-employment is somewhat lower, while for those who have been\
unemployed the point estimates of the slope is rather close to panel A of Table 40,\
195\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 197 of 269]\
and the main text. Although not shown here, the coef\uc0\u64257 cients on education, age,\
gender paint a similar relative picture as Table 39.\
The above results show that occupational mobility is high at any non-employment\
duration and exhibits a moderate increase with the duration of the non-employment\
spell, where between 50% and 60% of workers with at least 9 months of non-employment\
duration return to previous occupations at re-employment. These are very similar\
characteristics as the ones found in our main analysis based on the comparison of\
occupational codes. Once again we \uc0\u64257 nd a prominent decline in the probability of\
an occupational change with age. We also \uc0\u64257 nd small differences in the probability\
of an occupational change between males and females and across education levels,\
with the exception of the group of recently hired from unemployment (as in Table\
39). Note that including indicator variables for the occupations of origin and desti-\
nation (as done in 1b) does not alter greatly the outcomes for non-employment spell\
durations and other coef\uc0\u64257 cients, with the exception of the point estimates for the\
education coef\uc0\u64257 cients. This suggests that speci\u64257 c occupational identities are not the\
main drivers of both non-employment duration and occupational mobility of work-\
ers. This is once again in line with the conclusions of Section 1.5 in this appendix.\
B.6.3 The cyclicality of self-reported occupational mobility for the\
non-employed\
We now turn to investigate the cyclicality of our occupational mobility measure.\
When comparing the occupational mobility of workers recently hired from non-\
employment across different panels, Figure 52 suggests a procyclical pattern. This\
\uc0\u64257 gure depicts, for each panel, the occupational mobility implied by the answer to\
the occupational tenure question of those who were recently hired after a period of\
unemployment. Note that the retrospective work history questions are only asked\
at the beginning of a panel, so if we were to focus on recent hires we would not have\
a complete quarterly time series. Rather, we measure this mobility at various points\
over the business cycle. In the graph, we show the observations in the quarter in\
which the \'93recent hiring" typically took place for each panel. One can observe that,\
with the switch from overlapping panels to sequential panels in 1996, the length\
between the points for which we have observations widens signi\uc0\u64257 cantly over time.\
196\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 198 of 269]\
We focus on those panels which share their survey design with at least one other\
panel, so that we can also compare within survey design. In particular, the 1987-\
1993 panels share the same retrospective questioning, but we separate the 1990-1993\
panels because we can use the re-coded \uc0\u64257 rm identities to reduce measurement error\
in these panels. However, this has only a very minor impact on the recent hires,\
as \uc0\u64257 rm identi\u64257 ers do not play a large role in extracting the implied occupational\
mobility from self-reported occupational tenure. Potentially more important is that\
the timing of the retrospective question changes from wave 2 to wave 1 between\
the 1990-91 panels and the 1992-93 panels. This means that we observe less of the\
non-employment spell inside the core waves (and consequently have less monthly\
observations in which we could distinguish unemployment), which may have rele-\
vance for our \'93hires from unemployment\'94 measure. As noted, from the 1996 panel\
onwards, the SIPP was redesigned such that we can only use the occupational tenure\
question to gauge occupational mobility of those who are recently hired.96\
198719881990\
19911992\
19931996\
2001.2 .3 .4 .5\
1986q1\
1987q1\
1988q1\
1989q1\
1990q1\
1991q1\
1992q1\
1993q1\
1994q1\
1995q1\
1996q1\
1997q1\
1998q1\
1999q1\
2000q1\
2001q1\
2002q1\
Quarter (Average Quarter of Hiring in Retrospective Question)\
1987,1988 panels 1990,1991 panels\
1992,1993 panels 1996, 2001 panels\
NBER Recessions\
Figure 52: Retrospective self-reported occupational mobility of recent hires (after u),\
by panel\
The \uc0\u64257 rst observation from Figure 52 is the procyclicality of occupational mobil-\
96The 1984 has a different design that is not shared with any other panel, and is omitted from the\
picture but is included in the regressions below.\
197\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 199 of 269]\
ity over the entire time series. In times of low unemployment such as 1996 but also\
late 1989 to early 1990, self-reported occupational mobility is high, while in times of\
recession (high, or at least rather rapidly increasing unemployment) as in late 1990\
to early 1991 and 2001, mobility is lower than in preceding \'93good times\'94. Second,\
to assuage concerns about changes in survey design, we observe that the aforemen-\
tioned observation occurs precisely across panels that share the same survey design,\
i.e. the 1990-1991 panels, and the 1996-2001 panels.\
Table 41: The cyclicality of the probability of an occupational change\
Panel A: Recent Hires from Nonemployment (1984-2001)\
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vii) (viii)\
occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move?occ.move?occ.move?\
no obs. 1546 1546 1546 1546 1546 1507 1507 1507\
HP-\uc0\u64257 lt.log(U) -0.288*** -0.315*** -0.291** -0.323*** -0.587*** -0.310*** -0.383*** -0.648**\
(s.e.) (0.103) (0.085) (0.112) (0.098) (0.209) (0.108) (0.101) (0.215)\
panel FE v1 X X X\
panel FE v2 X X\
demog. ctrls X X X X X\
Panel B: Recent Hires after Unemployment (1984-2001)\
(ix) (x) (xi) (xii) (xiii) (xiv) (xv) (xvi)\
occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move?occ.move?occ.move?\
no obs. 689 689 689 689 689 676 676 676\
HP-\uc0\u64257 lt.log(U) -0.360* -0.270 -0.342* -0.246 -0.765*** -0.418** -0.325 -0.828***\
(s.e.) (0.184) (0.164) (0.189) (0.183) (0.176) (0.184) (0.196) (0.188)\
panel FE v1 X X X\
panel FE v2 X X\
demog. ctrls X X X X X\
Levels of signi\uc0\u64257 cance:p<0.1,p<0.05,p<0.01. Dependent variable occ.move?\
is our alternative mobility indicator that excludes cases where occupational between 1-4\
months longer than current job tenure, while previous job tenure is larger than 12 months.\
All regressions include a linear time trend. Demographic controls are a quartic in age, a\
gender dummy, race and education dummies. panel FE v1 has dummies for the following\
groups of panels, \{1984\}, \{1987, 1988\}, \{1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 \}, \{1996, 2001\}; panel FE v2\
for \{1984\}, \{1987, 1988\}, \{1990, 1991\}, \{1992, 1993 \}, \{1996, 2001\} Observation weighted by\
person weights within panel, by number of total observations per panel across panels.\
Standard errors clustered by quarter.\
We con\uc0\u64257 rm the procyclicality of occupational mobility using regression analysis.\
Table 41 shows the estimates of a linear probability model, were the dependent vari-\
able again takes the value of one if the worker reported a new line of work and zero\
otherwise. Our baseline is again occupational mobility as inferred from the occupa-\
tional tenure question, where all those who have an occupational tenure higher than\
the current job tenure (allowing for a month of ambiguity) are considered stayers.\
In our alternative measure (denoted with ?, in columns (vi-viii) and (xiv-xvi)), we\
drop those observations who were coded as stayers but reported an occupational\
198\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 200 of 269]\
tenure within four months of the current job tenure.\
When only controlling for a linear time trend, in columns (i) and (ix), we ob-\
serve that times of high unemployment, as captured by positive deviations from\
HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered log unemployment trend, are times of lower self-reported occupational\
mobility. This is also observed for the alternative measure of self-reported occupa-\
tional mobility, in columns (vi) and (xiv). In panel A, we take all recent hires, while\
in panel B we consider all recent hires for whom we observed a period of unem-\
ployment. Naturally, the number of observations in panel B is lower, which makes\
our inference harder. Nevertheless, we also observe a procyclical response of self-\
reported occupational mobility, statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant at the 10%, having clustered\
standard errors at the quarter level. Restricting stayers to have an occupational\
tenure more than four months longer than current job tenure leads to a slightly\
stronger observed procyclical responsiveness.\
As noted above, the SIPP\'92s survey design changed over time, which may affect\
our results. To address this issue, we consider two variants of dummies for sets of\
panels that share the same survey design. As noted above, the 1990 to 1993 panel\
share the same survey design apart from a change of the timing of the retrospective\
question, from wave 2 to wave 1. This can be relevant for observing unemployment\
during the preceding non-employment spell. Therefore, in the \uc0\u64257 rst version (v1), we\
add four dummies for grouped panels, one for the 1984 panel, one for both 1987 and\
1988 panel, one for the 1990-1993 panels, and one for the 1996-2001 panels. In the\
second version (v2), we add two separate dummies for the 1990-1991 panels and the\
1992-1993 panels.\
We observe that the responsiveness to the unemployment is much stronger in\
(v2). This responsiveness is driven by the variation within pairs of two panels,\
which puts a lot of weight on the behavior of the 1990 vs 1991 panel (and also on\
the 1996 vs 2001) panel, and less on the lower-frequency (but still business-cycle)\
behavior of the time series of observations in the subsequent recovery of the 1991\
recession as measured relative to the pre-recession 1990 panel and full-recession 1991\
panel. While these responses are statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant in both panels, we \u64257 nd it\
conservative to prefer v1and consider results in these two panels on a similar base\
to those in 1992 and 1993 panels, and estimate the responsiveness of mobility also\
taking into account that response to unemployment in the recovery of the 1991 re-\
199\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 201 of 269]\
cession.\
Overall, controlling for grouped panel effects (v1) does not change the estimated\
empirical responses much relative to e.g. columns (i) and (ix), while grouped panel\
effect (v1) leads to stronger procyclical responses. Comparing the estimates in panel\
B to panel A we do not observe meaningful differences in the point estimates, even\
though the underlying samples are smaller, with this naturally affecting the preci-\
sion of our inference. Controlling for demographic characteristics does not change\
the empirical responsiveness to cyclical unemployment, fully in line with the results\
of the occupational code-based analysis. Taken together, it appears clear that occu-\
pational mobility of recent hires from non-employment, inferred from retrospective\
questions on occupational tenure and job history, is procyclical. For those hired af-\
ter unemployment, the evidence points in the same direction, though tends to be\
statistically weaker as a result of a low numbers.\
Table 42: The cyclicality of the probability of an occupational change\
Panel A: Recent Hires from Nonemployment (1984-2001)\
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vii) (viii)\
occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move?occ.move?occ.move?\
no obs. 1546 1546 1546 1546 1546 1507 1507 1507\
HP-\uc0\u64257 lt.log(U) -0.270** -0.304*** -0.271** -0.311*** -0.583*** -0.291** -0.370*** -0.660***\
(s.e.) (0.104) (0.082) (0.113) (0.095) (0.201) (0.108) (0.100) (0.215)\
NE duration 0.006** 0.006** 0.007** 0.007** 0.007** 0.006** 0.007** 0.007**\
(s.e.) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003)\
panel FE v1 X X X\
panel FE v2 X X\
demog. ctrls X X X X X\
Panel B: Recent Hires after Unemployment (1984-2001)\
(ix) (x) (xi) (xii) (xiii) (xiv) (xv) (xvi)\
occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move occ.move?occ.move?occ.move?\
no obs. 689 689 689 689 689 676 676 676\
HP-\uc0\u64257 lt.log(U) -0.349* -0.271 -0.333* -0.250 -0.877*** -0.405** -0.327 -0.890***\
(s.e.) (0.187) (0.175) (0.189) (0.192) (0.175) (0.188) (0.206) (0.188)\
NE duration 0.013** 0.013** 0.014** 0.013** 0.015** 0.014** 0.013** 0.014**\
(s.e.) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) (0.006)\
panel FE v1 X X X\
panel FE v2 X X\
demog. ctrls X X X X X\
Levels of signi\uc0\u64257 cance:p<0.1,p<0.05,p<0.01. Dependent variable occ.move?\
is our alternative mobility indicator that excludes cases where occupational between 1-4\
months longer than current job tenure, while previous job tenure is larger than 12 months.\
All regressions include a linear time trend. Demographic controls are a quartic in age, a\
gender dummy, race and education dummies. panel FE v1 has dummies for the following\
groups of panels, \{1984\}, \{1987, 1988\}, \{1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 \}, \{1996, 2001\}; panel FE v2\
for \{1984\}, \{1987, 1988\}, \{1990, 1991\}, \{1992, 1993 \}, \{1996, 2001\} Observation weighted by\
person weights within panel, by number of total observations per panel across panels.\
Standard errors clustered by quarter.\
200\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 202 of 269]\
Cyclical Shift of the Mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le Finally, we investigate whether\
the self-reported occupational mobility pro\uc0\u64257 le with non-employment duration shifts\
down with recessions and whether on average exhibits a similar slope as in the\
pooled cross-sectional sample. Table 42 shows that this is indeed the case. We\
observe that the modest positive slope on the non-employment duration is pre-\
served when including the HP-\uc0\u64257 ltered log of the unemployment rate. Controlling\
for non-employment duration largely leaves the empirical cyclical responsiveness\
unaffected. This result again mimics the result for the code-based mobility mea-\
sures as they change with duration and the cycle.\
B.6.4 Retrospective Self-reported Occupational Mobility \'96 Conclu-\
sion\
In this section, we have investigate occupational mobility after non-employment\
spells using very different data than in the main text. None of the occupational in-\
formation used in the occupational code-based measures of the main text has been\
used in the measures in this section. Further, in the code-based measures of the main\
text, census coders are the judge of occupational change, while in the retrospective\
occupational tenure, this judgement is made by the interview subject. It is then\
comforting to observe that both measures line up well. First, according to workers,\
they are starting in a new line of work after nonemployment in about 40% cases.\
Second, with a longer nonemployment duration comes an increased tendency to\
change one\'92s line of work. However, this tendency is modest, around 6 p.p. higher\
after 6 months of unemployment, fully consistent with the occupational-code results\
in the main text and in Section 1 of this appendix. Third, when cyclical unemploy-\
ment is high, self-reported occupational mobility tends to be cyclically low. Fourth,\
controlling for the business cycle, we still observe a modest increase of self-reported\
mobility with nonemployment duration, again keeping with the pattern of code-\
based occupational mobility documented in the main text.\
Once again our estimates show that the probability of an occupational change\
for the non-employed is procyclical. This holds true for both samples and with or\
without controlling for the duration of the non-employment spell. In particular,\
for the sample of recent hires that were unemployed for at least one month before\
201\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 203 of 269]\
re-employment, we still observe the moderate increase in the probability of an occu-\
pational mobility with the duration of non-employment. Likewise, controlling for\
destination occupations, we also \uc0\u64257 nd strong procyclicality in the probability of an\
occupational change. This suggests that the procyclicality is not driven by shifts in\
the occupational destinations over the business cycle. This is once again inline with\
the results of Section 4 of this appendix.\
B.7 Data Construction\
B.7.1 Survey of Income and Program Participation\
The Survey of Income and Programme Participation (SIPP) is a longitudinal data\
set based on a representative sample of the US civilian non-institutionalized pop-\
ulation. It is divided into multi-year panels. Each panel comprise a new sample\
of individuals and is subdivided into four rotation groups. Individuals in a given\
rotation group are interviewed every four months such that information for each\
rotation group is collected for each month. At each interview individuals are asked,\
among other things, about their employment status as well as their occupations and\
industrial sectors during employment in the last four months.97\
The SIPP offers a high frequency interview schedule and aims explicitly at col-\
lecting information on worker turnover. Further, its panel dimension allows us to\
follow workers over time and construct uninterrupted spells of unemployment (or\
non-employment) that started with an employment to unemployment transitions\
and ended in a transition to employment. Its panel dimension also allows us to\
analyse these workers\'92 occupational mobility patterns conditional on unemploy-\
ment (or non-employment) duration and their post occupational mobility outcomes\
as outlined in Section 2 in the main text.\
Survey design and use of data. We consider the period 1983 - 2013. To cover this\
period we use 13 panels in total: the 1984-1988, 1990-1993, 1996, 2001, 2004 and 2008\
panels. For the 1984-1988 and 1990-1993 panels we have used the Full Panel \uc0\u64257 les as\
the basic data sets, but appended the monthly weights obtained from the individual\
97See http://www.census.gov/sipp/ for a detailed description of the data set.\
202\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 204 of 269]\
waves (sometimes referred to as core wave data). Until the 1993 panel we use the\
occupational information from the core waves. We do this for two reasons: (i) the\
full panel \uc0\u64257 les do not always have an imputation \u64258 ag for occupations; and (ii) be-\
tween the 1990 and 1993 panels \uc0\u64257 rm identities were retrospectively recoded, based\
on core wave \uc0\u64257 rm identi\u64257 ers. For our study it is important to be clear to which \u64257 rm\
the occupation belongs. We exclude the 1989 SIPP panel because the US Census\
Bureau does not provide the Full Panel \uc0\u64257 le for the 1989 data set and this panel was\
discontinued after only three waves (12 months). Since we want to be conservative\
regarding censoring, we opted for not using this data set. This is at a minor cost\
as the 1988 panel covers up to September 1989 and the 1990 panel collects data as\
from October 1989. For the 1996, 2001, 2004 and 2008 panels there is no longer a\
Full Panel \uc0\u64257 le nor a need for one. One can simply append the individual wave in-\
formation using the individual identi\uc0\u64257 er \'93lgtkey\'94 and merge in the person weights\
of those workers for whom we have information from the entire panel (or an en-\
tire year). In this case, the job identi\uc0\u64257 er information is also clearly speci\u64257 ed. Two\
important differences between the post and pre-1996 panels are worth noting. The\
pre-1996 panels have an overlapping structure and a smaller sample size. Starting\
with the 1996 panel the sample size of each panel doubled in size and the over-\
lapping structure was dropped. We have constructed our pre-1996 indicators by\
obtaining the average value of the indicators obtained from each of the overlapping\
panels.\
The SIPP\'92s sample design implies that in allpanels the \uc0\u64257 rst and last three months\
have less than four rotation groups and hence a smaller sample size. For this rea-\
son, in our time series analysis, we only consider months that have information for\
all four rotation groups. For statistics for which the distribution of unemployment\
duration matters we require that workers have at least 14 months of labor market\
history at the moment of re-employment in their corresponding SIPP panel. If nec-\
essary (and discussed in detail below), we impose further restrictions to deal with\
censored spells in order to generate a representative distribution of unemployment\
spells for at least up to one year. This restriction addresses that e.g. short completed\
unemployment spells typically have lower mobility, while in the \uc0\u64257 rst waves of a\
panel spells started and completed within the panel are necessarily of short dura-\
tion. This is even more important when constructing the job \uc0\u64257 nding rates, espe-\
203\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 205 of 269]\
cially when we want to focus on the job \uc0\u64257 nding rates in completed spells for which\
we know the occupational mobility outcomes. For the cumulative survival pro\uc0\u64257 le\
in unemployment, we consider all spells that at their start have at least 32 months\
of subsequent continuous presence in the sample and restrict these observations to\
be in the \uc0\u64257 rst 4 waves of the panel. For job \u64257 nding rates in the time series, which\
are based on incomplete spells, we require that all workers whose job \uc0\u64257 nding rate\
is measured at duration xremain continuously in the sample for at least 19- xmore\
months.\
The data also shows the presence of seams effects between waves, where tran-\
sitions are more likely to occur at a seam (i.e. between waves, and therefore at 4,8,\
12. . . months) than based on other characteristics, e.g. duration. When we consider\
time series and given the above restrictions, there is always one rotation at the seam\
in every month we consider which effectively smoothes out the clustering at the\
seam. In the case of the duration statistics for which the seam effect matters, we\
either consider observations in 4 months bins (e.g. survival at 4, 8, 12, 16 months of\
unemployment) or use the standard methods to reducing the seam bias by smooth-\
ing out the survival rates or considering \'93cumulative\'94 mobility rates with duration\
(see e.g. for the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le reported in Section 2.2 of the main text).\
We use the person weights per wave (\'93wp\uc0\u64257 nwgt\'94, and equivalent), but normal-\
ize these such that the average weight within a panel is equal to one. This is done\
because the size of panels is not constant, and we do not want to weigh panels with\
less observations more heavily as within a wave of a panel \'93wp\uc0\u64257 nwgt\'94 adds up to\
population totals and thus is higher on average when sample size is smaller. We\
think of our normalization as a reasonably agnostic approach that keeps the relative\
weights within a panel intact, but also takes into account the number of available\
observations.\
Sample selection and labor market status. For the 1984-2008 panels, we con-\
sider all workers between 18 and 65 years of age who are not in self-employment\
or in the armed forces nor in the agricultural occupations.98We measure an indi-\
98As agricultural occupations could be miscoded nonagricultural occupations and vice versa, in\
our code-error corrected measure, we take agricultural workers according to reported occupational\
codes into account, apply our correction method, and remove agricultural workers after correction\
from our sample and associated statistics.\
204\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 206 of 269]\
vidual\'92s monthly labor force status in the SIPP using two sources of information.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst one relies on the labor force status reported at the second week of each\
month. The second relies on the monthly employment status recode. Using these\
two sources (and using the SIPP 2001 wording as an example) we consider a worker\
to be employed during a month if the individual reported in the second week of that\
month that he/she was \'93with job/business - working\'94, \'93with job/business - not on\
layoff, absent without pay\'94 or \'93with job/business - on layoff, absent without pay\'94.\
The category \'93with a job\'94 (Census 2008) is assigned if the person either (a) worked\
as paid employees (or worked in their own business or profession or on their own\
farm or worked without pay in a family business or farm) or (b) \'93were temporarily\
[emphasis added] absent from work either with or without pay.\'94 Thus, the employment\
status recode category \'93with job/business - on layoff, absent without pay\'94 appears\
to capture temporary layoffs. Note that as a result our de\uc0\u64257 nition of employment\
differs from the CPS de\uc0\u64257 nition of employment. As the SIPP documentation points\
out: \'93 \'93With a job\'94 includes those who were temporarily absent from a job because\
of layoff and those waiting to begin a new job In 30 days; in the CPS these persons\
are not considered employed.\'94\
We consider a worker to be employed if the individual reported in the monthly\
employment status recode variable that he/she was \'93with a job entire month, worked\
all weeks", but also when \'93with a job all month, absent from work without pay 1+\
weeks, absences not due to layoff\'94, or \'93with a job all month, absent from work with-\
out pay 1+ weeks, absences due to layoff\'94. If workers have spent part of the month\
in employment and part of the month in unemployment, workers are nonemployed\
only if they are nonemployed in week 2 andhave been nonemployed for at least\
four weeks in total. That is, those who have less than a month of nonemployment\
in week 2 are still counted as employed. If the worker is \'93no job/business - looking\
for work or on layoff\'94 during one of the weeks in nonemployment (i.e. in the "no\
job/business") state, we consider the worker to be unemployed. We have chosen\
this classi\uc0\u64257 cation, because we want entry into unemployment to capture the serious\
weakening of the link with the previous \uc0\u64257 rm of employment, rather than to be a def-\
inite period of nonproduction after which the worker would return to the previous\
employer. The restriction of nonemployment for at least four weeks is meant to fur-\
ther limit the role of short-term absences from the same \uc0\u64257 rm and temporary layoffs.\
205\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 207 of 269]\
This is motivated by the analysis of Fujita and Moscarini (2017), who document that\
many workers with very short unemployment spells return to their previous em-\
ployer. We want to focus on those unemployed who at least consider employment in\
other \uc0\u64257 rms and possibly other occupations.\
.02 .04 .06 .08 .1\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1\
quarter\
(a) Sample: quarters after seam-correction SIPP\
.02 .04 .06 .08 .1\
1985q1 1990q1 1995q1 2000q1 2005q1 2010q1 2015q1\
quarter (b) Sample: quarters with workers in sample\
>14months\
Figure 53: Unemployment Rate SIPP (red, our measures) and BLS-CPS (blue, of\uc0\u64257 -\
cial)\
With these restrictions, our measured unemployment rate is somewhat lower\
than the of\uc0\u64257 cial unemployment rate. In Figure 53, we plot the unemployment rate\
in our SIPP sample, constructed according to our de\uc0\u64257 nition, next to the standard\
(CPS-based) unemployment rate from the BLS. The left panel displays the unem-\
ployment rate in the SIPP when excluding those quarters in which panels phase\
in or out. In this case all quarters considered are symmetric with respect to seams\
between waves: each month there is at least one rotation group which switches in-\
terview wave. The right panel considers only observations that have been in the\
sample for at least 14 months. This necessarily means bigger gaps between panels,\
but addresses issues of left-censoring when considering complete unemployment\
spells for which we can observe the occupational mobility. This is important when\
e.g. considering the distribution of unemployment durations of completed spells as\
at the beginning of the panel the only completed unemployment spells are neces-\
sarily those of short duration, which have a lower occupational mobility rate. Not\
taking this into account would lead to mistaken time series patterns of occupational\
mobility of the unemployed.\
206\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 208 of 269]\
Both panels of Figure 53 show that our restrictions lower the unemployment\
rate by about 1.5pp. This level effect is nearly uniform over time and over the cycle.\
That is, the time-series evolution of our measure of unemployment follows BLS un-\
employment closely, while the level effect is nearly unaffected by the business cycle.\
If anything, our measure responds slightly stronger to the business cycle (a 1pp rise\
in the of\uc0\u64257 cial rate raises our unemployment measure by 1.04pp, this is small but\
statistically signi\uc0\u64257 cant). The correlation between our unemployment measure and\
the BLS measure (for those months for which we have our SIPP measure of unem-\
ployment) is 98-99% for both unemployment series in Figure 53. This implies that\
the cyclical pattern in unemployment, to a very large extent, originates in the set\
of unemployed we consider in this paper (see also Hornstein, 2013, and Ahn and\
Hamilton, 2019).\
We further check that these properties also hold when we restrict unemployment\
to those who start and endunemployment within the SIPP sample, taking care to ad-\
dress both the left- and right-censoring involved in this measure. The correlation of\
this unemployment rate (smoothed, because of the smaller set of observations) with\
the BLS unemployment rate is over 94% when considering nonemployment spells\
that include months of unemployment, and 93% when considering pure unemploy-\
ment spells, where workers are unemployed in every month of nonemployment.\
Assigning \'93source\'94/\'93destination\'94 - occupations to unemployed workers. The\
SIPP collects information on a maximum of two jobs an individual might hold si-\
multaneously. For each of these jobs we have information on, among other things,\
hours worked, total earnings, 3-digit occupation and 3-digit industry codes. We\
drop all observations with imputed occupations (and industries). If the individual\
held two jobs simultaneously, we consider the main job as the one in which the\
worker spent more hours. We break a possible tie in hours by using total earnings.\
The job with the highest total earnings will then be considered the main job. In most\
cases individuals report to work in one job at any given moment. In the vast ma-\
jority of cases in which individuals report two jobs, the hours worked are suf\uc0\u64257 cient\
to identify the main job. Once the main job is identi\uc0\u64257 ed, the worker is assigned the\
207\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 209 of 269]\
corresponding two, three or four digit occupation.99\
Each unemployment spell that is started and \uc0\u64257 nished inside the panel can be\
assigned a \'93source\'94-occupation (main occupation right before the start of the un-\
employment spell), and a \'93destination\'94-occupation (main occupation right after be-\
coming employed again). If the occupation code is missing just before the unem-\
ployment spell (e.g. due to imputation) and an occupation code is reported in a pre-\
vious wave, while employment is continuous from the time that the occupation was\
reported until the start of the unemployment spell under consideration, we carry the\
latter occupation forward as source occupation. A worker is an occupation mover if\
source and destination occupations do not coincide. We thus conservatively count\
the following situation also as an occupational stay: the worker is simultaneously\
employed in two \uc0\u64257 rms at the moment the worker becomes unemployed, and \u64257 nds\
a job afterwards in an occupation that matches the occupation in one of the two\
previous jobs, even when it matches the job with less hours. The effect on the oc-\
cupational mobility statistics of counting as occupational stays the unemployment\
spells with two simultaneous jobs at either side is small.\
We construct the occupational mobility statistics from transitions of the form: at\
least a month in employment (with a non-imputed occupational code), followed by\
an unemployment spell which has a duration of at least a month, followed by at least\
a month in employment (with a non-imputed occupational code). We label these\
transitions as EUE transitions. We also consider transitions of the form: at least a\
month in employment (with a non-imputed occupational code), followed by a non-\
employment spell which has a duration of at least a month and involved at least\
one month of unemployment. We call these E-NUN-E transitions, or NUN-spells\
of nonemployment. Further convexifying the space between EUE and E-NUN-E,\
we also consider spells that started with a EU transition, i.e. employment directly\
followed by unemployment (though later the worker can report to stop looking for\
work), and those that ended with UE transition. We label these transitions as E-UN-\
E, E-NU-E, and if both restrictions apply, E-UNU-E transitions. We also tried other\
versions of the latter in which the full jobless spell was non-employed (ENE).\
99For the 1990-1993 panels we correct the job identi\uc0\u64257 er variable following the procedure suggested\
by Stinson (2003).\
208\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 210 of 269]\
Occupational Classi\uc0\u64257 cations. The SIPP uses the Census of Population Occupa-\
tional System, which relates closely to the Standard Occupational Code (SOC). The\
1984-1991 panels use the 1980 Census Occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cation, while the 1992-\
1996 and 2001 panels use the 1990 Census Occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cations. These two\
classi\uc0\u64257 cations differ only slightly between them. The 2004 and 2008 panels use the\
2000 Census occupational classi\uc0\u64257 cation, which differs more substantially from the\
previous classi\uc0\u64257 cations. We use David Dorn\'92s recoding of the 1980 and 2000 Census\
Occupational Classi\uc0\u64257 cation (Dorn, 2009, and Autor and Dorn, 2013) into the 1990\
Census Occupational Classi\uc0\u64257 cation to have a uniform coding system. In robustness\
exercises, we instead use the IPUMS crosswalk to map the 1980 and 1990 Census\
occupational system into the 2000 Census occupational system.\
We aggregate the information on \'93broad\'94 occupations (3-digit occupations) pro-\
vided by the SIPP into \'93minor\'94 and \'93major\'94 occupational categories.100Measure-\
ment error in occupational codes might give rise to spurious transitions, as dis-\
cussed for example in Kambourov and Manovskii (2008, 2009) and Moscarini and\
Thomsson (2007). We correct for coding error using the G-correction method we\
propose in Supplementary Appendix A. The occupational categories of the classi\uc0\u64257 -\
cations used can be found in Tables 4 and 5 of that appendix.\
Time series construction. We construct monthly time series for the unemploy-\
ment rate, employment to unemployment transition rate (job separation rate), un-\
employment to employment transition rate (job \uc0\u64257 nding rate), occupational mobility\
rates and the other measures described in the main text. Job \uc0\u64257 nding rates are simply\
UE t/Ut, the proportion of unemployed at time tthat moves to employment at time\
t+1. Similarly, the separation rate is EUt/Et, the proportion of employed at time\
tthat moves to unemployment at time t+1. We start measuring job \uc0\u64257 nding and\
separation rates at the \uc0\u64257 rst month were we have information for all four rotation\
groups.\
For construction of de-trended time series we have to address the issue of gaps\
(missing observations) in time series. There are a few quarters that are not covered\
100In any of these classi\uc0\u64257 cations we have not included the Armed Forces. The 1980 and 1990 clas-\
si\uc0\u64257 cations can be found at https://www.census.gov/people/io/\u64257 les/techpaper2000.pdf. The 2000\
classi\uc0\u64257 cation can be found in http://www.bls.gov/soc/socguide.htm. Additional information about\
these classi\uc0\u64257 cations can be found at http://www.census.gov/hhes/www/ioindex/faqs.html.\
209\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 211 of 269]\
at all by the 1984-2008 SIPP panels: 2000Q2-2000Q3, and 2008Q1. The gaps around\
these times can become larger, and new gaps can be created, when censoring issues\
cause us to drop further quarters from the analysis. We discuss this in more detail\
below.\
To cover the missing observations we interpolate the series using the TRAMO\
(Time Series Regression with ARIMA Noise, Missing Observations and Outliers)\
procedure developed by Gomez and Maravall (1999), with interpolation of missing\
observations through regression (\'93Additive Outlier Approac\'94).101In our baseline\
cyclical timeseries, de-trended data series are produced with after HP-\uc0\u64257 ltering the\
resulting (logged) time series, with smoothing parameter 1600.\
Two aspects are especially important for the time series of the propensity of hires\
from U to start in a new occupation: (1) the code error correction, and (2) addressing\
censoring issues, to counter noise and bias due to shifts in the duration distributions\
between adjacent quarters that are orthogonal to the business cycle.\
We select only observations of individuals who have been in sample for more\
than 14 interviews and are hired beyond wave 4. Given this, we correct for coding\
error at the level of quarter (completed) spell duration. This means that, for all\
hires from unemployment with a given completed duration in a given quarter, we\
calculate the transition matrix of occupational mobility and correct it using the ap-\
propriate G(code-error) correction matrix. We then calculate the cumulative mobil-\
ity of all hires with unemployment durations up to (and including) 12 months, and\
in an alternative measure, up to and including 14 months. We \uc0\u64257 nd little difference\
across these two measures, and hence report only the former measure. The same\
corrected observations at the level of duration quarter will subsequently be used\
to calculate the mobility-duration pro\uc0\u64257 le shift from times of low unemployment to\
times of high unemployment.\
While time series gaps are small for many statistics, this issue is more important\
101See also Fujita, et al. (2007) for a similar procedure using the SIPP . Tramo/Seats is a parametric,\
ARIMA model based method (AMB), that works in two steps. In the \uc0\u64257 rst step (TRAMO) the series\
is interpolates missing observations and deals with outliers. The second step (SEATS), among other\
things, decomposes the time series resulting from step 1 into e.g. a trend-cycle, an irregular, and a\
seasonal component. Seasonal adjustment is broadly similar to the Census Bureau\'92s X12 procedure,\
and is used e.g. by Eurostat. (Hood et al. (Hood, Ashley, Finley, US Census Bureau: \'93An Empirical\
Evaluation of the Performance of Tramo/Seats on Simulated Series\'94), who also argue that SEATS\
does better than X12-ARIMA with longer time series that have large irregular components.)\
210\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 212 of 269]\
SIPP Panels Qtr from Qtr to (inclusive)\
1984,85,86,87,1988 1985q1 1989q3\
1990,91,92,1993 1991q2 1995q3\
1996 1997q3 1999q4\
2001 2002q2 2003q4\
2004 2005q1 2007q3\
2008 2009q3 2013q3\
Table 43: Quarters included in time series for overall occupational mobility rate of\
all unemployed (with unemployment duration between 1-14 months\
for the average occupational mobility of all hires from unemployment (of 12-14\
months). The restriction to wave 5 and beyond means that, by default, we leave out\
those observed unemployment spells that arise from workers losing their jobs and\
being hired within the \uc0\u64257 rst 16 months of each panel. As argued above, this is to\
make sure that we capture the nearly full duration distribution of unemployment\
at each quarter considered in our analysis. This is especially important here as not\
doing so would generate a downward bias in the occupational mobility rates at the\
beginning of a panel, which is particularly strong in e.g. 2004. In addition, we take\
into account that, given the rotating survey design, some further quarters early in\
the panel do not have a seam in each month (this is also a relevant issue for the\
job \uc0\u64257 nding and separation time series). We are also conservative on this issue and\
disregard those quarters as well.\
We also note that censoring issues may arise at the very end of the panel, where\
again a quarter may contain varying proportion of monthly observations that are\
the \uc0\u64257 nal seam. We observe that in practice, some of these \'93ending\'94 quarters have\
duration distributions that are very different from the duration distributions in pre-\
vious quarters. As we show below, this variation is signi\uc0\u64257 cantly larger and more\
abrupt than changes that appear to move with business cycle conditions. For this\
reason, we also exclude the last quarter of the 1988 panel and all panels from the\
1993 panel onwards, with the exception of the 2001 panel. The quarters which are\
used for our analysis are then given in Table 43. These observations span a number\
of different moments during multiple business cycles and therefore the cyclical pat-\
terns can indeed be clear and signi\uc0\u64257 cant, as is shown in Section 2.5 of the main text\
and this appendix.\
To visualize the impact of censoring, Figure 54 presents the duration distribution\
211\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 213 of 269]\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent*1989q4 1989q3  1989q1    1988q1    1987q1    1986q1    1985q1*1984q4(a) 1984-1988 SIPPs\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent*1995q4 1995q3  1995q1    1994q1    1993q1    1992q1  1991q2*1991q1 (b) 1990-1993 SIPPs\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent*2000q1 1999q4   1999q1    1998q1  1997q3*1997q2\
(c) 1996 SIPP\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent 2003q4    2003q1   2002q2*2002q11 month 2 3 4 5\
6 months 7 8 9 10\
11 months 12 13 14 (d) 2001 SIPP\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent*2007q4 2007q3  2007q1    2006q1    2005q1\
(e) 2004 SIPP\
0 20 40 60 80 100\
percent*2013q4 2013q3  2013q1    2012q1    2011q1    2010q1  2009q3 (f) 2008 SIPP\
Figure 54: Completed Unemployment Duration of Hires from U, per quarter\
of hires from unemployment per quarter. Each horizontal bar speci\uc0\u64257 es the unem-\
ployment durations of hires (from 1 month to 14 months, in order). On the y-axis\
are the quarters in which we have observations beyond wave. Those quarters that\
212\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 214 of 269]\
we exclude from our time series calculations, due to one of the reasons mentioned\
above, are prefaced by an .102\
Here we can indeed observe the some of the last and \uc0\u64257 rst of the quarters con-\
sidered are affected by these (censoring) issues and hence are excluded from our\
analysis. We also observe that the remaining duration distributions are relatively\
stable across individual quarters, with the amount of quarter-to-quarter variation\
dropping with the 1996 panel and thereafter. This occurs because the sample sizes\
per panel are larger, while the overlapping nature of panels beforehand imply that\
some additional noise is generated when panels are phased in and out, while other\
panels are ongoing. We also tried to further restrict the sample to exclude observa-\
tions from these phase-in and -out, but the impact of this on time series patterns is\
minor.\
Aggregate Series Productivity, Unemployment, Vacancy Series For output\
per worker, we take nonfarm business output from the Major Sector Productivity\
and Costs section of Bureau of Labor Statistics (series id: PRS85006043), and divide\
this by the sum of employment of private industry wage and salary workers (not\
in agriculture) and employment of self-employed unincorporated workers in these\
sectors (series LNS12032189Q and lns12032192q, respectively) Unemployment rates\
in the cyclical analysis are BLS Unemployment rates (UNRATE in the St. Louis Fred\
data). We take the vacancy data from extended Help-Wanted Index constructed by\
Regis Barnichon.\
Repeat Mobility In our baseline repeat mobility measures, we concentrate on\
pure u-spells that follow pure u-spells within a SIPP panel, for workers that are at\
least 4 years in sample. To avoid including seasonal unemployment in our mea-\
sures (which are not informative about attachment as interpreted in the model), we\
exclude construction and agricultural workers. We are left with 610 observations of\
repeat unemployment. For our NUN measures, we consider NUN-spell following\
102One can distinguish some cyclical patterns directly, clearest perhaps when comparing across\
panels, where the red bands (hires after 6 months of unemployment) in the early 1990s panels are to\
the left of those in the 1996 panel, and likewise for the 2001 SIPP vs the 1996 and 2004 SIPP , and the\
2008 vs the 2004 SIPP , signifying more long-term unemployment in the \'93recession\'94 1990-1993, 2001,\
and 2008 SIPP panels.\
213\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 215 of 269]\
NUN-spells with the same restrictions, leaving 1306 observations of repeat unem-\
ployment. We average the measures that consider the occupation of intermediate\
employment at the beginning and end of that spell. We correct coding errors using\
the procedure described in footnote 13 in the main text. Finally, to gauge occupa-\
tional moving, we exclude any observations of return movers.\
B.7.2 Panel Survey of Income Dynamics\
Following Kambourov and Manovskii (2008) sample restrictions, we consider the\
1968-1997 period as during these years the PSID interviews were carried out annu-\
ally. We also consider males head of households between the ages of 23-61 years\
who were not self- or dual-employed and were not public sector works. This sam-\
ple restriction then gives 1,643 employed individuals in the year 1968 and 2,502\
employed individuals in 1997. In an alternative sample we also included women,\
younger workers and self or dual-employed workers with no meaningful change in\
our main results.\
To construct the across-employer occupational mobility rate we compute the frac-\
tion of employed workers who\'92s occupational code differs between years tand\
t+1 and have reported an employer change between these years, divided by the\
number of employed workers in year tthat have reported an employer change be-\
tween years tand t+1. As Kambourov and Manovskii (2009), to identify employer\
changes in the PSID we use Brown and Lights\'92 (1992) Partition T method. As ro-\
bustness we also use Brown and Lights\'92 (1992) Partition 24T method. To identify\
employer changes using these two methods we followed exactly the same proce-\
dure as speci\uc0\u64257 ed in Appendix A1 of Kambourov and Manovskii (2009). In addition,\
we used Hospicio\'92s (2015) method to identi\uc0\u64257 ed employer changes in the PSID, as\
described in Hospido (2015), Section 3.2. We \uc0\u64257 nd that our conclusions are not af-\
fected by the method used.\
When constructing the ENE occupational mobility rate we consider (i) those\
workers who were employed at the interview date in year t1, non-employed at\
the interview date in year tand once again employed at the interview date in year\
t+1; and (ii) those workers employed at the interview dates in years tand t+1 but\
who declared that they experienced an involuntary employer change during these\
214\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 216 of 269]\
two interviews. In an alternative speci\uc0\u64257 cation we also added those workers who\
were employed at the interview date in year t2, non-employed at the interview\
date in years t1 and tand once again employed at the interview date in year t+1.\
Given the small number of workers in the latter category the results hardly change.\
We follow Stevens (1997) and Hospido (2015) and classify an involuntary em-\
ployer change as those cases were the worker declared a job separation due to busi-\
ness or plant closing, due to being laid off or were \uc0\u64257 red or their temporary job ended.\
We also added an \'93other\'94 category as a reason why workers left their employers to\
increase the number of observations. This category encompasses other reasons such\
as military draft. Pooling together the \'93involuntary\'94 and \'93others\'94 categories and\
computing the ENE occupational mobility rate gives very similar results. Further,\
in constructing the ENE occupational mobility rates we were not able to eliminate\
those workers in temporary layoff. The analysis of Fujita and Moscarini (2016), how-\
ever, suggests that unemployed workers in temporary layoff will bias downwards\
ourENE occupational mobility rates as these workers have a very high probability\
of re-gaining employment in the same occupation.\
References\
[1] Acemoglu, D. and D. Autor. 2011. \'93Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications\
for Employment and Earnings,\'94 In D. Card and O. Ashenfelter (Eds.), Handbook\
of Labor Economics , Vol. 4, Part B, Chapter 12, Elsevier, The Netherlands.\
[2] Autor, D. H. and D. Dorn. 2013. \'93The Growth of Low-Skill Service Jobs and the\
Polarization of the US Labor Market,\'94 American Economic Review , Vol. 103 (5):\
1553-1597.\
[3] Ahn, H. J. and J. D. Hamilton. 2019. \'93Heterogeneity and Unemployment Dy-\
namics,\'94 Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , forthcoming.\
[4] Autor, D. H., F. Levy and R. J. Murnane. 2003. \'93The skill content of recent tech-\
nological change: An empirical exploration,\'94 Quarterly Journal of Economics ,\
Vol. 116 (4): 1279-1333.\
215\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 217 of 269]\
[5] Brown, J. N. and A. Light. 1992. \'93Interpreting Panel Data on Job Tenure,\'94 Jour-\
nal of Labor Economics , Vol. 10: 219-257.\
[6] Cortes, M., N. Jaimovich, C. J. Nekarda and H. E. Siu. 2016. \'93The Micro and\
Macro Disappearing Routine Jobs: A Flow Approach\'94, Mimeo, Department of\
Economics, York University, Canada.\
[7] Dorn, D. 2009. \'93Essays on Inequality, Spatial Interaction, and the Demand for\
Skills.\'94 Dissertation no. 3613, University of St. Gallen, Switzerland\
[8] Farber, H. S. and R. G. Valleta. 2015. \'93Do Extended Unemployment Bene\uc0\u64257 ts\
Lengthen Unemployment Spells? Evidence from Recent Cycles in the U.S. La-\
bor Market\'94 Journal of Human Resources , 50 (4): 873-909.\
[9] Fujita, S. and G. Moscarini. 2017. \'93Recall and Unemployment\'94, American Eco-\
nomic Review , Vol. 102 (7): 3875-3916.\
[10] Fujita, S., C. Nekarda and G. Ramey. 2007. \'93The Cyclicality of Worker Flows:\
New Evidence from the SIPP\'94. Federal Research Bank of Philadelphia, Working\
Paper No. 07-5.\
[11] Gomez, V . and A. Maravall. 1999. \'93Missing observations in ARIMA models:\
Skipping Approach versus Additive Outlier Approach\'94. Journal of Econometrics ,\
88: 341-363.\
[12] Goos, M. and A. Manning. 2007. \'93Lousy and Lovely Jobs: The Rising Polar-\
ization of Work in Britain,\'94 The Review of Economics and Statistics , Vol. 89 (1):\
118-133.\
[13] Hornstein, A. 2013. \'93Accounting for Unemployment: The Short and the Long\
of It\'94. Working Paper Series, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, WP 12-07.\
[14] Hospido, L. 2015. \'93Wage Dynamics in the Presence of Unobserved Individual\
and Job Heterogeneity,\'94 Labour Economics , Vol. 33: 81-93.\
[15] Jovanovic, B. and R. Mof\uc0\u64257 tt. 1990. \'93An Estimate of a Sectoral Model of Labor\
Mobility,\'94 Journal of Political Economy , Vol. 98 (4): 827-852.\
216\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 218 of 269]\
[16] Kambourov, G. and I. Manovskii. 2009. \'93Occupational Speci\uc0\u64257 city of Human\
Capital,\'94 International Economic Review , Vol. 50 (1): 63-115.\
[17] Kambourov, G. and I. Manovskii. 2008. \'93Rising Occupational and Industry Mo-\
bilty in the United States: 1968-97,\'94 International Economic Review , Vol. 49 (1):\
41-79.\
[18] Kroft, K., F. Lange, M. Notowidigdo and L. Katz, \'93Long-term unemployment\
and the Great Recession: the role of composition, duration dependence, and\
nonparticipation." Journal of Labor Economics 34.S1 (2016): S7-S54.\
[19] Murphy, K. and R. Topel. 1987. \'93The Evolution of Unemployment in the United\
States: 1968 - 1985,\'94 NBER Macroeconomics Annual 1987, Vol. 2: 11-68.\
[20] Neal, D. 1999. \'93The Complexity of Job Mobility Among Young Men,\'94 Journal of\
Labor Economics , Vol. 17 (2): 237-524.\
[21] Pavan, R. 2011. \'93Career Choice and Wage Growth\'94, Journal of Labor Economics ,\
Vol. 29 (3): 549-587.\
[22] Stevens, A. H. 1997. \'93Persistent Effects of Job Displacement: The Importance of\
Multiple Job Losses,\'94 Journal of Labor Economics , Vol. 15 (1): 165-188.\
[23] Wiczer, David. 2015. \'93Long-term Unemployment: Attached and Mismatched?\'94\
Research Division, Working Paper Series, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis,\
WP 2015-042A.\
217\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 219 of 269]\
Supplementary Appendix C: Theory\
This appendix complements Section 3 of the paper. The \uc0\u64257 rst part investigates,\
using a simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of the model, (i) the conditions under which rest un-\
employment arises and (ii) the cyclical properties of workers\'92 job separation and\
occupational mobility decisions. The second part presents the equations describing\
worker \uc0\u64258 ows in a BRE. The third part shows that the sub-market structure we im-\
pose in paper endogenously arises from a competitive search model. The fourth part\
provides the de\uc0\u64257 nition of a BRE, the proof of Proposition 2 (in the main text), the\
proof of existence of the separation and reallocation cutoffs as well as of the results\
presented in Sections 1 and 3 of this appendix.\
C.1 Model Implications and Comparative Statics\
We start by exploring the main implications of our theory: the occurrence of rest\
unemployment and the cyclical properties of workers\'92 decisions to search across oc-\
cupations and to separate from jobs. To keep the intuition as clear as possible we\
study a simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of our model without occupational human capital ac-\
cumulation, setting xh=1 for all h, and without occupational-wide productivity\
shocks, setting po=1 for all o. These restrictions imply that all occupations are\
identical, worker mobility across occupations is fully undirected and purely driven\
by occupation-worker idiosyncratic shocks such that gross mobility equals excess\
mobility. Further, within an occupation workers differ only in their z-productivities\
and labor market segmentation is done along this dimension. Agents\'92 value func-\
tions are still given by the Bellman equations described in Section 3.2 of the main\
text, but now with state space (z,A)instead of (z,x,o,A,p). The net value of search-\
ing across occupations then simpli\uc0\u64257 es to\
R(A) =c+Zz\
zWU(A,\'98z)dF(\'98z). (9)\
In Carrillo-Tudela and Visschers (2013) we show that in this setting and assum-\
ingF(z0jz)<F(z0j\'98z)for all z,z0ifz>\'98z, the value functions WU(A,z),WE(A,z),\
J(A,z)and M(A,z), exist, are unique and increase in z. This implies that q(A,z)also\
exists, is unique and increases with z. Further we show that if d+l(q(A,z))<1 for\
218\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 220 of 269]\
allA,z, in equilibrium there exists a unique cutoff function zsthat depends only on\
A, such that d(A,z) =s(A,z) =1 if and only if z<zs(A), and d(A,z) =s(A,z) =\
0 otherwise. Since R(A)is constant in z,WU(A,z)is increasing in z, and by the ex-\
istence of a unique zsso is maxfl(q(A,zr(A)))(WE(A,zr(A))WU(A,zr(A))), 0g,\
there also exists a reallocation cutoff function zr(A)such that workers decide to\
search across occupations if and only if z<zr(A)for every A, where zr(A)satis\uc0\u64257 es\
R(A) =WU(A,zr(A)) + maxfl(q(A,zr(A)))(WE(A,zr(A))WU(A,zr(A))), 0g.\
(10)\
Using this simpli\uc0\u64257 ed framework we \u64257 rst study the relative positions of the job\
separation and reallocation cut-off functions and hence gain insights on the condi-\
tions under which rest unemployment arises. We then study the slopes of these\
cut-off functions and gain insights into the cyclicality of separations and (excess) oc-\
cupational mobility in our model. Using our calibrated model we have veri\uc0\u64257 ed that\
the same properties as derived below apply to the more general setup considered\
there.\
C.1.1 The Occurrence of Rest Unemployment\
We \uc0\u64257 rst analyse how the value of waiting in unemployment and in employment\
changes with c,band the persistence of the z-productivity process, and how these\
changes determine the relative position of zrand zs. The simplest setting that cap-\
tures a motive for waiting is one in which the z-productivity is redrawn randomly\
with probability 0 <(1g)<1 each period from cdf F(z)and Ais held constant.\
Time-variation in zis essential here because a worker can decide to stay unemployed\
in his occupation, even though there are no jobs currently available for him, when\
there is a high enough probability that his z-productivity will become suf\uc0\u64257 ciently\
high in the future. All other features of the model remain the same, with the ex-\
ception that we do not consider human capital accumulation or occupational-wide\
productivity differences. In Section C.3.2 of this appendix we formulate the value\
functions for this stationary environment and provide the proofs of Lemmas 1 and\
2, below.\
In this stationary setting, the expected value of an unemployed worker with pro-\
219\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 221 of 269]\
ductivity z, measured at the production stage, is given by\
WU(A,z) = g\
b+bmaxn\
R(A),WU(A,z) +maxfl(q(A,z))(1h)(M(A,z)WU(A,z)), 0go\
+ ( 1g)Ez[WU(A,z)]. (11)\
Equation (11) shows that there are two ways in which an unemployed worker with\
az<zscan return to production. Passively , he can wait until his z-productivity\
increases exogenously. Or, actively , by paying cand sampling a new zin a different\
occupation. In the case in which the worker prefers to wait, the inner max f.g=0\
as the workers is below the separation cutoff and the outer max f.g=WU(A,z) =\
WU(A,zs(A)), where the latter equality follows as in this simpli\uc0\u64257 ed environment\
thez-productivity process is assumed to be iid. In the case in which the worker\
prefers to search across occupations the outer max f.g=R(A) =WU(A,zr(A)). The\
difference WU(A,zs(A))R(A), then captures the relative gain of waiting for one\
period over actively sampling a new zimmediately. If WU(A,zs(A))R(A)0,\
then zszrand there is rest unemployment. If WU(A,zs(A))R(A)<0, then zr>\
zs, and endogenously separated workers immediately search across occupations.\
Changing c,b, orgwill affect the relative gains of waiting, in employment and\
in unemployment. In the following lemma we derive the direction of the change\
inWU(A,zs(A))R(A), where we take fully into account the feedback effect of\
changes in c,b, orgon the match surplus M(A,z)WU(A,z)that arises due to the\
presence of search frictions as discussed in Section 3.3 in the main text.\
Lemma 1. Changes in c, b or gimply\
d(WU(A,zs(A))R(A))\
dc>0,d(WU(A,zs(A))R(A))\
db>0,d(WU(A,zs(A))R(A))\
dg<0.\
It is intuitive that raising cdirectly increases the relative gains of waiting as it\
make occupational mobility more costly. An increase in c, however, also leads to a\
larger match surplus because it reduces WU(A,z), making employed workers less\
likely to separate and hence reducing rest unemployment. The lemma shows that,\
overall, the \uc0\u64257 rst effect dominates. A rise in blowers the effective cost of waiting,\
while at the same time decreasing the match surplus by increasing WU(A,z), push-\
ing towards more rest unemployment. An increase in g, decreases the gains of wait-\
ing because it decreases the probability of experiencing a z-shock without paying c\
and hence increases the value of sampling a good z-productivity. In the proof of\
220\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 222 of 269]\
Lemma 1 we further show that an increase in WU(A,zs(A))R(A)leads to an in-\
crease in zs(A)zr(A). This implies that for a suf\uc0\u64257 ciently large c,bor 1grest\
unemployment arises.\
Rest Unemployment and Occupational Human Capital Occupational human\
capital accumulation makes a worker more productive in his current occupation.\
This implies that workers are willing to stay longer unemployed in their occupa-\
tions because, for a given z, they can \uc0\u64257 nd jobs faster and receive higher wages. At\
the same time, a higher xmakes the employed worker less likely to quit into unem-\
ployment, generating a force against rest unemployment. Taken together, however,\
the \uc0\u64257 rst effect dominates as the next result shows.\
Lemma 2. Consider a setting where A is \uc0\u64257 xed, z redrawn with probability (1g), and\
production is given by y =Axz. Consider an unexpected, one-time, permanent increase in\
occupation-speci\uc0\u64257 c human capital, x, from x =1. Then\
d(WU(A,zs(A,x),x)R(A))\
dx>0.\
This result implies that the difference zs(A,x)zr(A,x)becomes larger when\
human capital increases. Thus, more occupational human capital leads to rest un-\
employment.\
C.1.2 The Cyclicality of Occupational Mobility and Job Separation\
Decisions\
In Section 2.5 of the main text we documented that occupational mobility through\
unemployment (non-employment) is procyclical, while it is well established that job\
separations into unemployment (non-employment) are countercyclical (see Section\
5 in the main text). In the model, the cyclicalities of workers\'92 occupational mobility\
and job separation decisions are characterised by the slopes of the cutoff functions zr\
and zswith respect to A. As discussed in Section 3.3 of the main text, occupational\
mobility decisions are procyclical and job separation decisions are countercyclical\
when dzr/dA>0 and dzs/dA<0, respectively. We now explore the conditions\
under which such slopes arise endogenously in our model.\
221\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 223 of 269]\
Occupational Mobility Decisions We start by investigating the impact of rest\
unemployment on the slope of zrusing the simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of the model (i.e. xh=\
1 for all hand po=1 for all o). Using (10) and noting that R(A)WU(A,zr(A)) = 0,\
we obtain\
dzr\
dA=Rz\
zr\
\'b6WU(A,z)\
\'b6A\'b6WU(A,zr)\
\'b6A\
dF(z)\'b6\
\'b6A\
l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr))\
\'b6WU(A,zr)\
\'b6A+\'b6\
\'b6zr\
l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr)) .\
(12)\
Since workers who decided to search across occupations must sit out one period\
unemployed, the term\
l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr))\
captures the expected loss associated with the time cost of this decision: by deciding\
not to search across occupations, the worker could match with vacancies this period.\
When zr>zs,l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr))>0 and is increasing in Aand\
zr. Therefore, an increase in Ain this case, increases the loss associated with the\
time cost of searching across occupations and decreases dzr/dA. However, when\
rest unemployment occurs ( zs>zr),l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr)) = 0 and\
this effect disappears. This follows as during rest unemployment periods workers\
have a contemporaneous job \uc0\u64257 nding rate of zero and hence by searching across oc-\
cupations, the worker does not lose out on the possibility of matching this period.\
In this case, the cyclicality of occupational mobility decisions purely depends on the\
remaining terms, in particularRz\
zr\
\'b6WU(A,z)\
\'b6A\'b6WU(A,zr)\
\'b6A\
dF(z). Thus, the presence\
of rest unemployment adds a procyclical force to occupational mobility decisions.\
Now consider the impact of search frictions on the slope of zr. We focus on the\
more general case of zr>zs, which includes the additional countercyclical force\
discussed above. To gain analytical tractability we consider the stationary environ-\
ment used in the previous subsection and set g=1 such that both Aand workers\'92\
z-productivities are permanent. This allows us to link wages and labor tightness to\
y(A,z)in closed form. We then analyse the effects of a one-time, unexpected, and\
permanent change in Aonzr.103To isolate the role of search frictions, we compare\
103This approach follows Shimer (2005), Mortensen and Nagypal (2007), and Hagedorn and\
Manovskii (2008). Since the equilibrium value and policy functions only depend on Aand z,\
analysing the change in the expected value of unemployment and joint value of the match after a\
one-time productivity shock is equivalent to compare those values at the steady states associated\
222\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 224 of 269]\
this case with one without search frictions in which workers (who are currently not\
changing occupations) can match instantaneously with \uc0\u64257 rms and are paid y(A,z).\
In both cases we keep in place the same reallocation frictions. Let zr\
cdenote the\
reallocation cutoff in the case without search frictions. The details of both cases,\
including the corresponding value functions and the proof of the following lemma\
can be found in Section C.4 of this appendix.\
Lemma 3. Consider a one-time, unexpected, permanent increase in A. With search frictions\
the cyclical response of the decision to search across occupations is given by\
dzr\
dA=bR\'afz\
zrCs(A,z)\
Cs(A,zr)\
yA(A,z)yA(A,zr)\
dF(z)(1b)yA(A,zr)\
(1bF(zr))yz(A,zr), (13)\
where y i(A,z) =\'b6y(A,z)/\'b6i for i =A,z and C s(A,z) =bl(q(A,z))\
(1b)(1b+bl(q(A,z))). Without\
search frictions the cyclical response is given by\
dzr\
c\
dA=bR\'afz\
zrc(yA(A,z)yA(A,zr\
c))dF(z)(1b)yA(A,zr\
c)\
(1bF(zrc))yz(A,zrc). (14)\
The \uc0\u64257 rst term in the numerator of (13) and (14) relates toRz\
zr\
\'b6WU(A,z)\
\'b6A\'b6WU(A,zr)\
\'b6A\
dF(z)\
in equation (12), while the second term captures the opportunity cost of the realloca-\
tion time. The proof of Lemma 3 shows that Cs(A,z)/Cs(A,zr)is increasing in zand\
dzr\
dA>dzrc\
dAatzr=zr\
c. Thus, the presence of search frictions also adds procyclicality\
to the decision to search across occupations. Search frictions lead to a steeper real-\
location cutoff function because, in this case, an increase in Aincreases WU(A,z)\
through both the wage and the job \uc0\u64257 nding probability. In contrast, an increase in A\
in the frictionless case only affects WU(A,z)through wages (with a proportionally\
smaller effect on wb), as workers always \uc0\u64257 nd jobs with probability one. The fact\
that Cs(A,z)/Cs(A,zr)is increasing in zforz>zr, re\uc0\u64258 ects that the impact of y(A,z)\
onWU(A,z)is increasing in z. Indeed, from the proof of Lemma 3 one obtains\
\'b6WU(A,z)\
\'b6A.\
\'b6WU(A,zr)\
\'b6A=Cs(A,z)yA(A,z)\
Cs(A,zr)yA(A,zr)>yA(A,z)\
yA(A,zr)forz>zr.\
One can get further intuition by considering the planners\'92 problem (for details\
see Carrillo-Tudela and Visschers, 2013). The envelope condition implies that the\
planner, at the optimum allocation, does not need to change labor market tightness\
with each productivity level. This is because in our model the value and policy functions jump\
immediately to their steady state level, while the distribution of unemployed and employed over\
occupations takes time to adjust.\
223\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 225 of 269]\
at each zfor a in\uc0\u64257 nitesimal change in Ato still obtain the maximum net increase in\
expected output. At a given z, this means that an increase of dAcreates\
dWU(A,z) =bl(q(A,z))\
(1b)(1b+bl(q(A,z)))yA(A,z)dA=Cs(A,z)yA(A,z)dA\
in additional life-time expected discounted output for the planner. Since our econ-\
omy is constrained ef\uc0\u64257 cient, the change in Aalso creates the same lifetime expected\
discounted income for an unemployed worker with such z.\
In addition, (13) and (14) show that the cyclicality of zrin either case depends\
on the production function y(A,z), in particular on the sign of yA(A,z)yA(A,zr)\
forz>zr. In the proof of Lemma 3 we show that with search frictions, the deci-\
sions to search across occupations will already be procyclical when the production\
function is modular and zris suf\uc0\u64257 ciently close to zs. This follows because the op-\
portunity cost of searching across occupations becomes smaller as zrapproaches zs\
from above. With rest unemployment this opportunity cost is zero. If zris sub-\
stantially above zs, we will need suf\uc0\u64257 cient complementarities between Aand zin\
the production function to obtain a procyclical zr. Without search frictions, in con-\
trast, a supermodular production function is only a necessary condition to generate\
procyclicality in zr.\
Job Separations The main aspect of having endogenous job separation and\
occupational mobility decisions is that the two can potentially interact. In particular,\
ifzr>zs, workers separate endogenously to search across occupations and this\
could lead to zrand zshaving the same cyclical behavior. For example, in the setting\
of Lemma 3 were both Aand workers\'92 z-productivities are permanent, we show at\
the end of Section C.3.2 of this appendix that dzs/dAdepends directly on dzr/dA.\
Namely,\
dzs(A)\
dA=yA(A,zs(A))\
yz(A,zs(A))+bl(q(A,zr(A)))\
1b(1d) +bl(q(A,zr(A)))yA(A,zr(A))\
yz(A,zs(A))\
1+yz(A,zr(A))\
yA(A,zr(A))dzr(A)\
dA\
.\
The second term makes explicit the interaction between the decisions to separate\
from a job and to search across occupations when there is no rest unemployment.\
It captures the change in the gains of search across occupations, dR(A)/dA, and\
shows that zrand zscan have the same cyclicality. When instead zs>zr, workers\
endogenously separate into a period of rest unemployment. In this case, R(A)has\
224\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 226 of 269]\
a smaller impact on the value of unemployment at the moment of separation. This\
is because searching across occupations would only occur further in the future, and\
then only if a worker\'92s z-productivity would deteriorate below zr. Thus, the pres-\
ence of rest unemployment weakens any feedback of a procyclical zronto zs. Indeed,\
by setting l(.) =0 in the above expression we get that zsis always countercyclical.\
C.2 Worker Flows\
In a BRE the evolution of the distribution Gof employed and unemployed work-\
ers across labor markets (z,x), occupations oand employment status esis a result\
of (i) optimal vacancy posting q(.), job separation decisions d(.)and occupational\
mobility decisions r(.)andS(.), all depending on the state vector w= (A,p,z,x,o);\
and (ii) the exogenous retiring probability m. To obtain the laws of motions of unem-\
ployed and employed workers it is then useful to derive the measure of unemployed\
and employed workers at each stage jwithin a period, where j=s,r,m,prepresent\
separations, reallocations, search and matching and production as described in the\
main text. It is also useful to consider the following Markov Chain: in period t\
an employed worker with human capital level xhincreases his human capital to\
xh+1with probability ce(xh+1jxh), where ce(xh+1jxh) = 1ce(xhjxh),xh<xh+1,\
h=1, . . . , Hand xH<\'a5. Human capital depreciation occurs during unemploy-\
ment with probability cu(xh1jxh), where cu(xh1jxh) = 1cu(xhjxh),xh>xh1,\
h=1, . . . , H. Let uj\
t(z,xh,o)denote the measure of unemployed workers in labor\
market (z,xh)in occupation oat the beginning of stage jin period t. Similarly, let\
ej\
t(z,xh,o)denote the measure of employed workers in labor market (z,xh)in occu-\
pations oat the beginning of stage jin period t.\
C.2.1 Unemployed Workers\
Given the initial conditions (A0,p0,Gp\
0), the measure of unemployed workers char-\
acterised by (z,xh)in occupation oat the beginning of next period\'92s separation stage\
225\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 227 of 269]\
is\
us\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz= ( 1m)"\
cu(xhjxh)Zz\
zup\
t(\'98z,xh,o)dF(zj\'98z)d\'98z+cu(xhjxh+1)Zz\
zup\
t(\'98z,xh+1,o)dF(zj\'98z)d\'98z#\
+mO\
\'e5\
\'98o=1H\
\'e5\
\'98h=1Zz\
zh\
up\
t(\'98z,x\'98h,\'98o) +ep\
t(\'98z,x\'98h,\'98o)i\
d\'98z\
yo(1h=1)dF(z). (15)\
Conditional on not retiring from the labor market, the terms inside the \uc0\u64257 rst squared\
bracket show the probability that unemployed workers in labor markets (\'98z,xh,o)\
and(\'98z,xh+1,o)in the previous period\'92s production stage will be in labor market\
(z,xh,o)immediately after the zand xhshocks occur. The term in the second squared\
bracket refers to the measure of new workers who entered the economy to replace\
those who left at the beginning of the period due to the m-shock. We assume that\
the population of workers is constant over time, making the in\uc0\u64258 ow equal to the out-\
\uc0\u64258 ow of workers. New workers are assumed to enter unemployed with a \'98zrandomly\
drawn from F(.)and with the lowest human capital level x1. The above equation\
considers the in\uc0\u64258 ow who has been assigned productivity zand occupation o, where\
yodenotes the probability that workers in the in\uc0\u64258 ow are assigned occupation oand\
1h=1denotes an indicator function which takes the value of one when the labor\
market (z,xh)is associated with x1and zero otherwise.\
During the separation stage some employed workers will become unemployed.\
Since by assumption these newly unemployed workers do not participate in the cur-\
rent period\'92s reallocation or search and matching stages, it is convenient to count\
them at the production stage. This implies that us\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz=ur\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz.\
Similarly, we will count at the production stage those unemployed workers who\
arrived from other occupations during the reallocation stage, as they also do not\
participate in the current period\'92s search and matching stage. This implies that the\
measure of unemployed workers characterised by (z,xh)in occupation oat the be-\
ginning of the search and matching stage is given by\
um\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz= (1r(A,p,z,xh,o))ur\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz.\
Noting that (1l(q(A,p,z,xh,o)))um\
t+1(z,xh,o)dzworkers remain unemployed\
after the search and matching stage, the above assumptions on when do we count\
occupational movers and those who separated from their employers imply that the\
measure of unemployed workers characterised by (z,xh)in occupation oduring the\
226\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 228 of 269]\
production stage is given by\
up\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz=(1l(q(A,p,z,xh,o)))um\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz+d(z,xh,o,A,p)es\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz\
(16)\
+ (1h=1)\
\'e5\
\'98o6=oH\
\'e5\
\'98h=1hZz\
zr(\'98z,\'98xh,\'98o,A,p)a(so(\'98z,\'98xh,\'98o,A,p),\'98o)ur\
t+1(\'98z,x\'98h,\'98o)d\'98zi\
dF(z)#\
.\
C.2.2 Employed Workers\
Next we turn to describe the laws of motion for employed workers. Given the initial\
conditions (A0,p0,Gp\
0), the measure of employed workers characterised by (z,xh)in\
occupation oat the beginning of next period\'92s separation stage is given by\
es\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz= ( 1m)"\
ce(xhjxh)Zz\
zep\
t(\'98z,xh,o)dF(zj\'98z)d\'98z\
+ ( 1h>1)ce(xhjxh1)Zz\
zep\
t(\'98z,xh+1,o)dF(zj\'98z)d\'98z#\
. (17)\
Conditional on not retiring from the labor market, the terms inside the squared\
bracket show the probability that employed workers in labor markets (\'98z,xh,o)and\
(\'98z,xh1,o)in the previous period\'92s production stage will be in labor market (z,xh,o)\
immediately after the zand xhshocks occur. In this case, the indicator function 1h>1\
takes the value of one when the labor market (z,xh)is associated with a value of\
xh>x1and zero otherwise.\
Since we count those employed workers who separated from their employers in\
the production stage and employed workers do not participate in the reallocation or\
the search and matching stages, it follows that es\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz=er\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz=\
em\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz. This implies that the measure of employed workers characterised\
by(z,xh)in occupation oduring the production stage is given by\
ep\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz= (1d(z,xh,o,A,p))es\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz+l(q(w))um\
t+1(z,xh,o)dz,\
(18)\
where the last term describes those unemployed workers in labor market (z,xh)\
who found a job in their same occupation o.\
227\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 229 of 269]\
C.3 Competitive Search Model\
In the model described in the main text we exogenously segment an occupation into\
many sub-markets, one for each pair (z,x). We assumed that workers with current\
productivities (z,x)in occupation oonly participate in the sub-market (z,x)in such\
an occupation. We now show that this sub-market structure endogenously arises\
from a competitive search model in the spirit of Moen (1997) and Menzio and Shi\
(2010). To show this property in the simplest way, we focus on the case in which all\
occupations have the same productivities (only excess mobility) and workers only\
differ in their z-productivities within an occupation. This is the same simpli\uc0\u64257 cation\
we used in Section C.1 of this appendix. Adding differences in occupation pro-\
ductivities and occupational human capital is a straightforward extension. The full\
theoretical and quantitative analysis of this competitive search model can be found\
in our earlier working paper Carrillo-Tudela and Visschers (2013).\
C.3.1 Basic Setup\
As in the main text, we look for an equilibrium in which the value functions and\
decisions of workers and \uc0\u64257 rms in any occupation only depend on the productivities\
w= (A,z)and workers\'92 employment status. Following Menzio and Shi (2010)\
and Menzio, Telyukova and Visschers (2016) we divide the analysis in two steps.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst step shows that at most one sub-market is active for workers with current\
productivity z. The second step shows that in equilibrium \uc0\u64257 rms will post wage\
contracts such that a worker with current productivity zdoes not \uc0\u64257 nd it optimal\
to visit any other sub-market other than the one opened to target workers of this\
productivity.\
Assume that in each occupation \uc0\u64257 rms post wage contracts to which they are\
committed. For each value of zin an occupation othere is a continuum of sub-\
markets, one for each expected lifetime value \'98Wthat could potentially be offered by\
a vacant \uc0\u64257 rm. After \u64257 rms have posted a contract in the sub-market of their choice,\
unemployed workers with productivity z(henceforth type zworkers) can choose\
which appropriate sub-market to visit. Once type zworkers visit their preferred\
sub-market j, workers and \uc0\u64257 rms meet according to a constant returns to scale match-\
228\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 230 of 269]\
ing function m(uj,vj), where ujis the measure of workers searching in sub-market\
j, and vjthe measure of \uc0\u64257 rms which have posted a contract in this sub-market.\
From the above matching function one can easily derived the workers\'92 job \uc0\u64257 nding\
ratel(qj) = m(qj)and the vacancy \uc0\u64257 lling rate q(qj) = m(1/qj), where labor mar-\
ket tightness is given by qj=vj/uj. The matching function and the job \uc0\u64257 nding and\
vacancy \uc0\u64257 lling rates are assumed to have the following properties: (i) they are twice-\
differentiable functions, (ii) non-negative on the relevant domain, (iii) m(0, 0) = 0,\
(iv)q(q)is strictly decreasing, and (v) l(q)is strictly increasing and concave.\
We impose two restrictions on beliefs off-the-equilibrium path. Workers believe\
that, if they go to a sub-market that is inactive on the equilibrium path, \uc0\u64257 rms will\
show up in such measure to have zero pro\uc0\u64257 t in expectation. Firms believe that, if\
they post in an inactive sub-market, a measure of workers will show up, to make\
the measure of deviating \uc0\u64257 rms indifferent between entering or not. We assume,\
for convenience, that the zero-pro\uc0\u64257 t condition also holds for deviations of a single\
agent: loosely, the number of vacancies or unemployed, and therefore the tightness\
will be believed to adjust to make the zero-pro\uc0\u64257 t equation hold.\
C.3.2 Agents\'92 Problem\
Workers Consider the value function of an unemployed worker having pro-\
ductivity zin occupation oat the beginning of the production stage, WU(w) =\
b+bE[WR(w0)]. The value of unemployment consists of the \uc0\u64258 ow bene\u64257 t of unem-\
ployment bthis period, plus the discounted expected value of being unemployed at\
the beginning of next period\'92s reallocation stage,\
WR(w0) =max\
r(w0)fr(w0)R(w0) + ( 1r(w0))E[S(w0) +WU(w0)]g, (19)\
where r(w0)takes the value of one when the worker decides to reallocate and take\
the value of zero otherwise and recall Ris the expected value of reallocation. In this\
case,\
R(w) =c+\'e5\
o06=oZ\
WU(A0,\'98z)dF(\'98z)\
O1.\
The worker\'92s expected value of staying and searching in his current occupation is\
given by E[S(w0) +WU(w0)]. In this case, WU(w0) =E[WU(w0)]describes the\
229\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 231 of 269]\
expected value of not \uc0\u64257 nding a job, while S(w0)summarizes the expected value\
added of \uc0\u64257 nding a new job. The reallocation decision is captured by the choice\
between R(w0)and the expected payoff of search in the current occupation.\
To derive S(.)note that l(q(w,Wf))denotes the probability with which a type\
zworker meets a \uc0\u64257 rm fin the sub-market associated with the promised value Wf\
and tightness q(w). Further, let a(Wf)denote the probability of visiting such a sub-\
market. From the set Wof promised values which are offered in equilibrium by\
\uc0\u64257 rms for a given z, workers only visit with positive probability those sub-markets\
for which the associated Wfsatis\uc0\u64257 es\
Wf2arg max\
Wl(q(w0,Wf))(WfWU(w0))S(w0). (20)\
When the setWis empty, the expected value added of \uc0\u64257 nding a job is zero and the\
worker is indifferent between visiting any sub-market.\
Now consider the value function at the beginning of the production stage of an\
employed worker with productivity zin a contract that currently has a value \'98Wf(w).\
Similar arguments as before imply that\
\'98Wf(w) =wf+bE\
max\
d(w0)f(1d(w0))\'98Wf(w0) +d(w0)WU(w0)g\
, (21)\
where d(w0)take the value of dwhen \'98Wf(w0)WU(w0)and the value of one other-\
wise. In equation (21), the wage payment wfat \uc0\u64257 rm fis contingent on state w, while\
the second term describes the worker\'92s option to quit into unemployment in the\
separation stage the next period. Note that WU(w0) =E[WU(w0)]as a worker who\
separates must stay unemployed for the rest of the period and \'98Wf(w0) =E[\'98Wf(w0)]\
as the match will be preserved after the separation stage.\
Firms Consider a \uc0\u64257 rm fin occupation o, currently employing a worker with\
productivity zwho has been promised a value \'98Wf(w)WU(w). Noting that the\
state space for this \uc0\u64257 rm is the same as for the worker and given by w, the expected\
lifetime discounted pro\uc0\u64257 t of the \u64257 rm can be described recursively as\
J(w;\'98Wf(w)) = max\
wf,\'98Wf(w0)\
y(A,z)wf+bEh\
max\
s(w0)n\
(1s(w0))J(w0;\'98Wf(w0)) +s(w0)\'98V(w0)oi\
,(22)\
where s(w0)takes the value of dwhen J(w0;\'98Wf(w0))\'98V(w0)and the value of one\
otherwise, \'98V(w0) = max\
V(w0), 0	\
and V(w0)denotes the maximum value of an\
230\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 232 of 269]\
un\uc0\u64257 lled vacancy in occupation oat the beginning of next period. Hence (22) takes\
into account that the \uc0\u64257 rm could decide to target its vacancy to workers of with a\
different productivity in the same occupation or withdraw the vacancy from the\
economy and obtain zero pro\uc0\u64257 ts.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst maximisation in (22) is over the wage payment wfand the promised\
lifetime utility to the worker \'98Wf(w0). The second maximisation refers to the \uc0\u64257 rm\'92s\
layoff decision. The solution to (22) then gives the wage payments during the match\
(for each realisation of wfor all t). In turn these wages determine the expected\
lifetime pro\uc0\u64257 ts at any moment during the relation, and importantly also at the start\
of the relationship, where the promised value to the worker is \'98Wf.\
Equation (22) is subject to the restriction that the wage paid today and tomor-\
row\'92s promised values have to add up to today\'92s promised value \'98Wf(w), according\
to equation (21). Moreover, the workers\'92 option to quit into unemployment, and the\
\uc0\u64257 rm\'92s option to lay off the worker imply the following participation constraints\
\
J(w0;\'98Wf(w0))\'98V(w0)\
0 and\
\'98Wf(w0)WU(w0)\
0. (23)\
Now consider a \uc0\u64257 rm posting a vacancy in occupation o. Given cost kand know-\
ingw, a \uc0\u64257 rm must choose which unemployed workers to target. In particular, for\
each za \uc0\u64257 rm has to decide which \'98Wfto post given the associated job \u64257 lling probabil-\
ity,q(q(w,\'98Wf)). This probability summarises the pricing behaviour of other \uc0\u64257 rms\
and the visiting strategies of workers. Along the same lines as above, the expected\
value of a vacancy targeting workers of productivity zsolves the Bellman equation\
V(w) =k+max\
\'98Wfn\
q(q(w,\'98Wf))J(w,\'98Wf) + ( 1q(q(w,\'98Wf)))\'98V(w)o\
. (24)\
We assume that there is free entry of \uc0\u64257 rms posting vacancies within any occupa-\
tion. This implies that V(w) = 0 and \'98Wfthat yield a q(w,\'98Wf)>0, and V(w)0\
for all those wand \'98Wfthat yield a q(w,\'98Wf)0. In the former case, the free entry\
condition then simpli\uc0\u64257 es (24) to k=max \'98Wfq(q(w,\'98Wf))J(w,\'98Wf).\
C.3.3 Endogenous Market Segmentation\
We now show that if there are positive gains to form a productive match with a\
worker of type z, \uc0\u64257 rms offer a unique \'98Wfwith associate tightness \'98q(A,z)in the\
231\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 233 of 269]\
matching stage. This implies that only one sub-market opens for a given value of\
zand workers of productivity zoptimally chose to search in such a sub-market.\
Consider a value of z. For any promised value WE, the joint value of the match\
is de\uc0\u64257 ned as WE+J(A,z,WE)\'98M(A,z,WE). Lemma 4 shows that under risk\
neutrality the value of a job match is constant in WEand Jdecreases one-to-one\
with WE.\
Lemma 4. The joint value \'98M(A,z,WE)is constant in WEWU(A,z)and hence we\
can uniquely de\uc0\u64257 ne M (A,z)de f=\'98M(A,z,WE),8M(A,z)WEWU(A,z)on this\
domain. Further, J W(A,z,WE) =1,8M(A,z)>WE>WU(A,z).\
The proof of Lemma 4 is presented in Section C.4.4. It crucially relies on the\
\uc0\u64257 rms\'92 ability to offer workers inter-temporal wage transfers such that the value of\
the job match is not affected by the (initial) promised value. Note that Lemma 4\
implies that no \uc0\u64257 rm will post vacancies for zvalues such that M(A,z)WU(A,z)\
0. Lemma 5 now shows that for a given z, for which M(A,z)WU(A,z)>0, \uc0\u64257 rms\
offer a unique \'98Wfin the matching stage and there is a unique qassociated with it.\
Lemma 5. If the elasticity of the vacancy \uc0\u64257 lling rate is weakly negative in q, there exists a\
unique q(A,z)and W(A,z)that solve (20), subject to (24).\
The proof of Lemma 5 is also presented in Section C.4.4. The requirement that\
the elasticity of the job \uc0\u64257 lling rate with respect to qis non-positive is automatically\
satis\uc0\u64257 ed when q(q)is log concave, as is the case with the Cobb-Douglas and urn\
ball matching functions. Both matching functions imply that the job \uc0\u64257 nding and\
vacancy \uc0\u64257 lling rates have the properties described in Lemma 5 and hence guarantee\
a unique pair \'98Wf,q. Consider a Cobb-Douglas matching function as it implies a\
constant #q,q(q). Using hto denote the (constant) elasticity of the job \uc0\u64257 nding rate\
with respect to q, we \uc0\u64257 nd the well-known division of the surplus according to the\
Hosios\'92 (1991) rule\
h(WEWU(A,z))(1h)J(A,z,WE) =0. (25)\
Since for every value of zthere is at most one \'98Wfoffered in the matching stage,\
the visiting strategy of an unemployed worker is to visit the sub-market associated\
with \'98Wfwith probability one when S(A,z)>0 and to randomly visit any sub-\
232\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 234 of 269]\
market when S(A,z) = 0 (or not visit any submarket at all). Let \'98Wz\
fdenote the\
unique expected value offered to workers of productivity zin equilibrium.\
The \uc0\u64257 nal step is to verify that if we allow \u64257 rms to post a menu of contracts which\
specify for each za different expected value, then the above equilibrium allocation\
and payoffs can be sustained in this more general setting. To show this we closely\
follow Menzio and Shi (2010) with the addition of endogenous reallocation. Since\
the expected value of reallocation Ris a constant across z-productivities, it is easy\
to verify that the proof developed in Menzio and Shi (2010) applies here as well.\
Intuitively, consider a BRE in which \uc0\u64257 rms that want to only attract a worker of\
type zoffer a contract with expected value \'98Wz\
f, as derived above, to any worker of\
type zor higher; and for lower worker types, the \uc0\u64257 rm offers contracts with expected\
values strictly below these types\'92 value of unemployment. Since \'98Wz\
fandqzin this\
candidate equilibrium are increasing in z, this implies that only the type zworkers\
visit these \uc0\u64257 rms. To show that this is indeed optimal for \u64257 rms, \u64257 rst consider the\
deviation in which a \uc0\u64257 rm opens a new sub-market that attracts workers of different\
types zand \'88zby offering expected values Wzand W\'88z. Without loss of generality\
assume that \uc0\u64257 rms obtain higher pro\u64257 t from matching with a worker of type zinstead\
of type \'88z. Next consider an alternative deviation in which a \uc0\u64257 rm opens a sub-market\
that only attract workers of type zby offering Wzand the value of unemployment\
to any other worker type. Given the off-equilibrium beliefs, a higher tightness is\
associated with this alternative deviation which makes it more attractive for type\
zworkers to visit relative to the original deviation. That is, if there is a strictly\
pro\uc0\u64257 table deviation in which more than one type visits the same sub-market, there\
is always another strictly more pro\uc0\u64257 table deviation in which a sub-market is visited\
by only one type. However, Lemma 5 shows that the latter deviation cannot exist\
and therefore there also cannot be a pro\uc0\u64257 table deviation in which more than type\
visits the same sub-market in equilibrium.\
C.4 Proofs\
De\uc0\u64257 nition A Block Recursive Equilibrium (BRE) is a set of value functions\
WU(w),WE(w),J(w), workers\'92 policy functions d(w),r(w),S(w), \uc0\u64257 rms\'92 policy\
233\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 235 of 269]\
function s(w), tightness function q(w), wages w(w), laws of motion of A,p,zand\
xfor all occupations, and laws of motion for the distribution of unemployed and\
employed workers over all occupations, such that: (i)the value functions and de-\
cision rules follow from the \uc0\u64257 rm\'92s and worker\'92s problems described in equations\
(1)-(5) in the main text; (ii)labor market tightness q(w)is consistent with free entry\
on each labor market, with zero expected pro\uc0\u64257 ts determining q(w)on labor mar-\
kets at which positive ex-post pro\uc0\u64257 ts exist; q(w) = 0 otherwise; (iii)wages solve\
equation (6) in the main text; (iv)the worker \uc0\u64258 ow equations map initial distribu-\
tions of unemployed and employed workers (respectively) over labor markets and\
occupations into next period\'92s distribution of unemployed and employed workers\
over labor markets and occupations, according to the above policy functions and\
exogenous separations.\
Proposition 2 Given F(z0jz)<F(z0j\'98z)for all z,z0when z>\'98z: (i) a BRE exists\
and it is the unique equilibrium, and (ii) the BRE is constrained ef\uc0\u64257 cient.\
C.4.1 Proof of Proposition 2\
We divide the proof into two parts. In the \uc0\u64257 rst part we show existence of equilibrium\
by deriving the operator T, showing it is a contraction and then verifying that the\
candidate equilibrium functions from the \uc0\u64257 xed point of Tsatisfy all equilibrium\
conditions. The second part shows ef\uc0\u64257 ciency of equilibrium.\
C.4.1.1 Existence\
Step 1: LetM(w)WE(w) +J(w)denote the value of the match. We want to\
show that the value functions M(w),WU(w)and R(w)exist. This leads to a three\
dimensional \uc0\u64257 xed point problem. It is then useful to de\u64257 ne the operator Tthat maps\
the value function G(w,n)forn=0, 1, 2 into the same functional space, such that\
234\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 236 of 269]\
G(w, 0) =M(w),G(w, 1) =WU(w),G(w, 2) =R(w)and\
T(G(w, 0)) = y(A,po,z,x) +bEw0h\
max\
dTf(1dT)M(w0) +dTWU(w0)gi\
,\
T(G(w, 1)) = b+bEw0h\
max\
rTfrTR(w0) + ( 1rT)(DT(w0) +WU(w0))gi\
,\
T(G(w, 2)) = max\
S(w)\
\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(sT\
\'98o)Zz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z) + ( 1\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(sT\
\'98o))[b+bEw0R(w0)]c\
,\
where the latter maximization is subject to so2[0, 1]and\'e5o2Oso=1, and\
DT(w0)l(q(w0))(1h)\
M(w0)WU(w0)\
, with q(w0) =h(M(w0)WU(w0))\
k 1\
1h\
.\
(26)\
Lemma A.1: Tis (i) a well-de\uc0\u64257 ned operator mapping functions from the closed\
space of bounded continuous functions EintoE, and (ii) a contraction.\
First we show that the operator Tmaps bounded continuous functions into\
bounded continuous functions. Let WU(w),R(w)and M(w)be bounded contin-\
uous functions. It then follows that l(q(w))and D(w)are continuous functions. It\
also follows that max fM(w),WU(w)gand maxfR(w),D(w) +WU(w)gare contin-\
uous. Further, since the constraint set for Sis compact-valued and does not depend\
onw, functions a(.)are continuous, and the integral of continuous function WUis\
continuous, the theorem of the maximum then implies that the expression\
max\
S(w)\
\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(sT\
\'98o)Zz\
zWU(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A,p)dF(\'98z) + ( 1\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(sT\
\'98o))[b+bEw0R(w0)]c\
(27)\
is continuous. Therefore Tmaps continuous functions into continuous functions.\
Moreover, since the domain of wis bounded, and a(.)andl(.)are bounded on\
bounded domains, Tmaps the space of bounded continuous functions into itself.\
Second we show that Tde\uc0\u64257 nes a contraction. Consider two functions G,G02E,\
such thatkGG0ksup<#. It then follows that kWUWU0ksup<#,kRR0ksup<#\
andkMM0ksup<#, where WU,Rand Mare part of Gas de\uc0\u64257 ned above. We \u64257 rst\
establish that\
kD+WUD0WU0ksup<#, (28)\
when function-tuples Dand D0are derived from (M,WU), and (M0,WU0)respec-\
235\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 237 of 269]\
tively. With this aim consider, without loss of generality, the case in which M(w)\
WU(w)>M0(w)WU0(w)at a given w. Instead of D(w), write D(M(w)W(w))\
to make explicit the dependence of DonMand W. To reduce notation we sup-\
press the dependence on wfor this part of the proof and further condense WU=W.\
From MW>M0W0, it follows that #>W0WM0M>#. Construct\
M00=W0+ (MW)>M0and W00=M0(MW)<W0. Equation (26) implies\
D(MW) +Wis increasing in Mand in W. To verify this, hold Mconstant and\
note that\
d(D(MW) +W)\
dW=l(q(.)) + 10 (29)\
by virtue of d(D(MW))/d(MW) =land that l2[0, 1], where the inequality\
in (29) is strict when l2[0, 1)and weak when l=1. Then, it follows that\
#<D(M0W00) +W00D(MW)WD(M0W0) +W0D(MW)W\
D(M00W0) +W0D(MW)W<#\
where D(M0W00) = D(MW) = D(M00W0)by construction. Note that the\
outer inequalities follow because MM0>#and W0W<#. Given that\
D,Mand Ware bounded continuous functions on a compact domain and the\
above holds for every w, it then must be that kD+WUD0WU0ksup<#. Since\
kmaxfa,bgmaxfa0,b0gk<maxfkaa0k,kbb0kg, as long as the terms over\
which to maximize do not change by more than #in absolute value, the maximized\
value does not change by more #, it then follows that kT(G(w,n))T(G0(w,n)k<\
b#for all w;n=0, 1.\
To show thatkT(G(w, 3))T(G0(w, 3)k<b#for all w, with a slight abuse of\
notation, de\uc0\u64257 ne TR(w,S)as\
TR(w,S) =\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(s\'98o(w))Zz\
zh\
b+bEw0h\
max\
rTfrTR(w0) + ( 1rT)(DT(w0) +WU(w0))gii\
dF(\'98z)\
(30)\
+(1\'e5\
\'98o2Oa(s\'98o(w)))[b+bEw0R(w0)]c.\
LetS(w) =fs\
1, . . . , s\
o1,s\
o+1, . . . , s\
Ogbe the maximizer of TRatwandS0(w)\
ofTR0. Without loss of generality assume that TR(w,S)>TR0(w,S0). Since our\
236\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 238 of 269]\
previous arguments imply that\
kh\
max\
rfrR+ (1r)(D+WU)gi\
h\
max\
rfrR0+ (1r)(D0+W0)gi\
ksup<b#\
it then follows that kTR(w,S)TR0(w,S)ksup<b#. Further, since TR(w,S)>\
TR0(w,S0\
)>TR0(w,S)we have that 0 <TR(w,S)TR0(w,S)<b#. Using the\
latter inequality to obtain 0 <TR(w,S)TR0(w,S0\
) +TR0(w,S0\
)TR0(w,S)<\
b#and noting that TR0(w,S0\
)TR0(w,S)>0, it follows that 0 <TR(w,S)\
TR0(w,S0\
)<b#. This last step is valid for all w, then it implies that kT(G(w, 3))\
T(G0(w, 3)ksup<b#and hence the operator Tis a contraction and has a unique \uc0\u64257 xed\
point.\
Step 2 (Linking the Mapping Tand BRE Objects): From the \uc0\u64257 xed point func-\
tions M(w),WU(w)and R(w)de\uc0\u64257 ne the function J(w) = maxf(1z)[M(w)\
WU(w)], 0g, and the functions q(w)and V(w)from 0 =V(w) =k+q(q(w))J(w).\
Also de\uc0\u64257 ne WE(w) = M(w)J(w)ifM(w)>WU(w), and WE(w) = M(w)if\
M(w)WU(w). Finally, de\uc0\u64257 ne d(w) = dT(w),s(w) =sT(w),r(w) =rT(w),\
S(w) =ST(w)and a w(w)derived using the Nash bargaining equation in the main\
text given all other functions.\
Given 1z=hand provided that the job separation decisions between workers\
and \uc0\u64257 rms coincide, which they are as a match is broken up if and only if it is bilater-\
ally ef\uc0\u64257 cient to do so according to M(w)and WU(w), then equations (5) and (6) in\
the main text (describing J(w)and surplus sharing) are satis\uc0\u64257 ed. Further, equation\
(3) in the main text (describing WE(w)) is satis\uc0\u64257 ed by construction, q(w)satis\u64257 es\
the free-entry condition and w(w)satis\uc0\u64257 es equation (6) in the main text. Hence, the\
constructed value functions and decision rules satisfy all conditions of the equilib-\
rium and the implied evolution of the distribution of employed and unemployed\
workers also satis\uc0\u64257 es the equilibrium conditions.\
Uniqueness follows from the same procedure in the opposite direction and using\
a contradiction argument. Suppose the BRE is not unique. Then a second set of func-\
tions exists that satisfy all the equilibrium conditions. Construct \'88M,\'88WUand \'88Rfrom\
these conditions. Since in any equilibrium the job separation decisions have to be\
bilaterally ef\uc0\u64257 cient and the occupational mobility decisions ( randS) are captured\
inT, then \'88M,\'88WUand \'88Rmust be a \uc0\u64257 xed point of T, contradicting the uniqueness\
237\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 239 of 269]\
of the \uc0\u64257 xed point established by Banach\'92s Fixed Point Theorem. Hence, there is a\
unique BRE.\
C.4.1.2 Ef\uc0\u64257 ciency\
The social planner, currently in the production stage, solves the problem of maxi-\
mizing total discounted output by choosing job separations decisions d(.), occupa-\
tional mobility decisions r(.)andS(.), as well as vacancy creation decisions v(.)for\
each pair (z,xh)across all occupations o2Oin any period t. The \uc0\u64257 rst key aspect of\
the planner\'92s choices is that they could potentially depend on the entire state space\
Wj=fz,x,o,A,p,Gjgfor each of the four within period stages j=s,r,m,p(sep-\
aration, reallocation, search and matching, production) and workers\'92 employment\
status, such that its maximization problem is given by\
max\
fd(Ws),r(Wr),S(Wr),v(Wm)gE\'a5\
\'e5\
t=0O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
zbt\
up\
t(z,xh,o)b+ep\
t(z,xh,o)y(At,po,t,z,xh)\
dz\
(31)\
O\
\'e5\
o0=1H\
\'e5\
h0=1Zz\
zbt+1h\
cr(z0,x0\
h,o0,At+1,pt+1,Gr\
t+1)ur\
t+1(z0,x0\
h,o0)\
+kvt+1(z0,x0\
h,o0,At+1,pt+1,Gm\
t+1)i\
dz0\
,\
subject to the initial conditions (A0,p0,Gp\
0), the laws of motion for unemployed and\
employed workers described in Section C.2 of this appendix (with corresponding\
state space Wjfor the decision rules), and the choice variables r(.)and d(.)being\
continuous variables in [0, 1], as the planner can decide on the proportion of workers\
in labor market (z,xh)to separate from their jobs or to change occupations.\
Note that implicitly the social planner is constrained in the search technology\
across occupations: it faces the same restrictions as an individual worker (in oc-\
cupation o2O), on the proportion of time that can be devoted to obtain a z-\
productivity from occupation \'98o6=o. Namely, s\'98o(.)2[0, 1],\'e5\'98o2Oos\'98o(.) = 1 and\
\'e5\'98o2Ooa(s\'98o(.),o)1, where O\
odenotes the set of remaining occupations relative\
too. The latter notation highlights that, as in the decentralised problem, once the\
occupational mobility decision has been taken the new z-productivity cannot be ob-\
tain from the departing occupation.\
238\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 240 of 269]\
Rewriting the planners\'92 problem in recursive form as the \uc0\u64257 xed point of the map-\
ping TSPand letting next period\'92s values be denoted by a prime yields\
TSPWSP(Wp) = max\
d(Ws0),r(Wr0),\
S(Wr0),v(Wm0)	O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
z(up(z,xh,o)b+ep(z,xh,o)y(A,po,z,xh))dz\
(32)\
+bEWs0jWp"\
 \
cO\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
zr(Wr0)ur0(z0,x0\
h,o)dz0+kO\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
zv(Wm0)dz0!\
+WSP(Wp0)#\
,\
subject to the same restrictions described above. Our aim is to show that this map-\
ping is a contraction that maps functions WSP(.)from the space of functions linear\
with respect to the distribution Gpinto itself, such that\
WSP(Wp) =O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
z\
up(z,xh,o)Wu,SP(w)+ep(z,xh,o)MSP(w)\
dz, (33)\
for some functions Wu,SP(w)and MSP(w), where w= (z,xh,o,A,p), and up(.)and\
ep(.)are implied byGp.\
In Section C.2 of this appendix, we decomposed the next period\'92s measure of\
unemployed workers at the production stage, up0, into three additive terms (see\
equation (16)). The \uc0\u64257 rst term refers to those unemployed workers that were unsuc-\
cessful in matching, either due to not \uc0\u64257 nding a posted vacancy in their submarket\
or because the planner chose not to post vacancies in their submarket. The second\
term refers to those workers who separated from employment and hence were re-\
stricted from the search and matching stage within the period. The third term refers\
to those who changed occupations and came from other markets into submarket\
(z,xh,o)and were restricted from the search and matching stage within the period.\
Likewise, we decomposed the next period\'92s measure of employed workers at the\
production stage into two additive terms (see equation (18)). The \uc0\u64257 rst one refers to\
the survivors in employment from the previous separation stage, while the second\
terms refers to new hires. Given a continuation value function WSP(Wp0)that is lin-\
ear inGp, as in (33), we now show that we can also decompose the expression in (32)\
into different additive components.\
Consider \uc0\u64257 rst those unemployed workers who are eligible to participate in the\
search and matching stage. Note that the matching technology implies v(Wm) =\
239\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 241 of 269]\
q(Wm)(1r(Wr))um(z,xh,o). Therefore we can consider q(Wm0)as the planner\'92s\
choice in equation (32) instead of v(Wm0). Next we isolate the terms of WSP(Wp0)\
that involve workers who went through the search and matching stage: the \uc0\u64257 rst\
term of the unemployed worker \uc0\u64258 ow equation (16) and the second term of the em-\
ployed worker \uc0\u64258 ow equation (18). We then combine these terms with the cost of va-\
cancy posting in (32). Noting that the dependence of um(Wm0)captures a potential\
dependence of the planner\'92s occupational mobility decisions made in the previous\
reallocation stage, we can express the terms in the mapping (32) that involve q(Wm0)\
as\
O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
zum0(Wm0)n\
kq(.) +l(q(.))MSP(w0) + ( 1l(q(.))Wu,SP(w0)o\
dz0.\
(34)\
Note that by backwards induction, the planner\'92s optimal decisions for q(Wm0)max-\
imize (34). Given that the terms within the curly brackets only depend on w0when\
the continuation value is linear as in (33), maximizing with respect to qimplies an\
optimal q(w0). Using this result we let Wm,SP(w0)denote the sum of the maximized\
terms inside the curly brackets in (34) .\
Next consider the search-direction choice across occupations for those workers\
who the planner has decided to move across occupations. The following expression\
summarizes the terms of (32) that involve this choice,\
\'e5\
o0H\
\'e5\
h0=1Zz\
z\
ur\
t+1(Wr0)r(Wr0)\
\'e5\
\'88o6=o0a(s\'88o(.),o0)Zz\
zh\
Wu,SP(\'88z,x1,\'88o,A0,p0)i\
dF(\'88z)\
+(1\'e5\
\'88o6=o0a(s\'88o(.),o0))[b+bEw00RSP(w00)]\
dz0, (35)\
where we have applied the properties of the z-productivity process to change the or-\
der of integration relative to the third term of \uc0\u64258 ow equation (16) and have integrated\
over all of next period\'92s production stage states. Since we allow previous decisions\
to depend on the entire state space, ur\
t+1(.)andr(.)are written as a function of Wr0as\
they potentially depend on the distribution Gr. Note, however, that the term inside\
the curly brackets in (35) can be maximized separately for each (z0,xh0,o0)and can\
therefore be summarized by Rgross ,SP(w0) = RSP(w0)c, while the search intensity\
decisionS(.)has solution vector fs(w0,\'98o)g.\
240\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 242 of 269]\
Noting that us(.) = ur(.)and um(.) = ( 1r(.))ur(.)(see Section C.2 of this\
appendix), the above results imply we can express the term on the second line of\
equation (32) as\
bEWs0jWp" \
O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
z\
us0(z0,x0\
h,o)n\
r(.)RSP(w0) + ( 1r(.))Wm,SP(w0)o\
(36)\
+es0(z0,x0\
h,o)n\
(1d(.))MSP(w0) +d(.)Wu,SP(w0)o\
dz!#\
,\
where it follows that the maximizing decisions r(.)and d(.)are also functions of w0,\
as these are the only other dependencies within the curly brackets.\
Finally, given the properties of the shock processes, note that us\
t+1(.)and es\
t+1(.)\
are linear functions of up(.)and ep(.), as demonstrated by equations (15) and (17) in\
Section C.2 of this appendix. This implies that we can express TSPWSP(Wp)as\
TSPWSP(Wp) =O\
\'e5\
o=1H\
\'e5\
h=1Zz\
zh\
TWU,SP\
max(z,xh,o,A,p)u(z,xh,o) +TMSP\
max(z,xh,o,A,p)e(z,xh,o)i\
dz,\
(37)\
where TWU,SP\
max is given by\
TWU,SP\
max(w) = max\
r(w0),q(w0)\
b+bEw0jw\
r(w0)Zz\
zmax\
S(!0)h\
\'e5\
\'98o6=oa(s\'98o(w0,o))WU,SP\
max(\'98z,x1,\'98o,A0,p0)dF(\'98z)\
+ (1\'e5\
\'98o6=oa(s\'98o(w0,o)))[b+bEw00jw0RU,SP\
max(w00)i\
c\
(38)\
+ (1r(w0))h\
l(q(w0))(MSP\
max(w0)WU,SP\
max(w0))q(w0)k+WU,SP\
max(w0)i\
,\
and TMSP\
maxis given by\
TMSP\
max(p,x,z) =max\
d(w0)\
y(z,xh,A,po) +bEw0jw\
d(w0)WU,SP\
max(w0) + ( 1d(w0))MSP\
max(w0)\
.\
(39)\
Hence we have established that the mapping TSPdescribed in equation (32) maps\
functions WSP(.)from the space of functions linear with respect to the distribution\
Gp(of the form (33)) into itself.\
It is now straightforward to show that if TWU,SP\
max,TRSP\
maxand TMSP\
maxare contrac-\
tion mappings, then (37) (and thereby (32)) is also a contraction mapping. Given the\
regularity properties assumed on the shock processes and following the proof of the\
241\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 243 of 269]\
decentralised case in Section C.4.1.1 of this appendix, we can show that a \uc0\u64257 xed point\
exists for (38) and (39). Using equation (37), we then can construct the \uc0\u64257 xed point of\
the expression in (32). It then follows from (38) and (39) that if the Hosios\'92 condition\
holds, allocations of the \uc0\u64257 xed point of Tare allocations of the \u64257 xed point of TSP, and\
hence the equilibrium allocations in the decentralised setting are also the ef\uc0\u64257 cient\
allocations.\
C.4.1.3 BRE gives the unique equilibrium allocation\
We now show that in any equilibrium, decisions and value functions only depend\
onw= (z,xh,o,A,p). We proceed using a contradiction argument. Suppose there\
is an alternative equilibrium in which values and decisions do not depend only\
onw, but also on an additional factor like the entire distribution of workers over\
employment status and z-productivitiesG, or its entire history of observables, Ht.\
Consider the associated value functions in this alternative equilibrium, where the\
relevant state vector of the alternative equilibrium is given by (w,Ht). Our aim is to\
show that such an equilibrium cannot exist.\
First suppose that in the alternative equilibrium all value functions are the same\
as in the BRE, but decisions differ at the same w. This violates the property that,\
in our setting, all maximizers in the BRE value functions are unique, leading to a\
contradiction. Now suppose that in the alternative equilibrium at least one value\
function differs from the corresponding BRE value function at the same w. It is\
straightforward to show that the expected values of unemployment must differ in\
both equilibria. Let WU(w,Ht)denote the value function for unemployed workers\
in the alternative equilibrium, and let WU(w)denote the corresponding value func-\
tion in the BRE for the same w. Since in the proof of ef\uc0\u64257 ciency of a BRE we did not\
rely on the uniqueness of the BRE in the broader set of all equilibria, we can use the\
proved results of Section C.3.1.2 of this appendix here.\
In particular, recall that the social planner\'92s problem is entirely linear in the dis-\
tribution of workers across states and hence WU(w)is the best the unemployed\
worker with wcan do (without transfers), including in the market equilibrium.\
Likewise, M(w)is the highest value of the joint value of a match, including in the\
market equilibrium. Since value functions are bounded from above and from below\
242\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 244 of 269]\
and are continuous in their state variables, there exists a supremum of the difference\
between WU(w)and the candidate market equilibrium\'92s WU(w,Ht), sup(WU(w)\
WU(w,Ht)) = eu>0. Similarly, there also exists a supremum for the difference be-\
tween M(w)and M(w,Ht), sup(M(w)M(w,Ht)) = em>0. In what follows, we\
will show that a difference in the value functions for unemployed workers (or the\
value functions for the joint value of the match) arbitrarily close to eu>0 (orem>0)\
cannot occur. Otherwise, this will require that the difference in tomorrow\'92s values to\
be larger than eu(orem). In turn, this implies that an alternative equilibrium cannot\
exist.\
From the above de\uc0\u64257 nition of supremum, it follows that\
maxfM(w),WU(w)gmaxfM(w,Ht),WU(w,Ht)g<maxfeu,emg.\
Since\
M(w) =y(z,xh,A,po) +bE[maxfM(w0),WU(w0)g],\
and likewise for M(w,Ht)it follows that at any (w,Ht),\
M(w)M(w,Ht))<bmaxfeu,emg. (40)\
Consider \uc0\u64257 rst the case in which emeu. For (w,Ht)achieving a difference M(w)\
M(w,Ht)>bemis not possible since this will lead to a contradiction in equation\
(40) when em>0.\
Next consider the case in which em<eu. Simplifying notation by dropping w\
and using the prime instead of (w,Ht), we \uc0\u64257 rst establish an intermediate step. At\
any(w,Ht)it holds that\
l(q)(1h)M+ (1l(q)(1h))W<l(q0)(1h)M0+ (1l(q0)(1h))W0+eu.\
(41)\
There are two cases to be analysed to show the above relationship.\
Case 1: Suppose that (M0W0)MW, then l(q0)l(q). De\uc0\u64257 ne K= (1\
h)(l(q0)l(q))(M0W0)0. Combining the latter with l(q)(1h)(MM0) +\
(1l(q)(1h))(WW0)eu, it must be true that\
l(q)(1h)(MM0) + ( 1l(q)(1h))(WW0)Keu, (42)\
from which (41) follows.\
243\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 245 of 269]\
Case 2: Suppose that (MW)>(M0W0), then l(q)>l(q0). From the derivative\
ofd\
d(MW)(l(q(MW))(1h)(MW)) = l(q(MW)), we can establish that, if\
(MW)>(M0W0),\
l(q)((MW)(M0W0))>l(q)(1h)(MW)l(q0)(1h)(M0W0)>l(q0)((MW)(M0W0)).\
Since in any equilibrium (not only in the BRE) q0depends only on (M0W0)and\
constant parameters, we can use this relationship to establish that\
W+l(q)(MW)(W0+l(q)(M0W0))<eu,\
from which (41) follows.\
The \uc0\u64257 nal step is to consider an (w,Ht)such that maxfem,b1eug<WU(w)\
WU(w,Ht)<eu, where such a (w,Ht)exists by the de\uc0\u64257 nition of supremum. With\
this in hand it is straightforward to check that the difference in tomorrow \'92s value (un-\
der the expectation sign), between WU(w)and WU(w,Ht)will not exceed eu, since\
term-by-term, the difference is bounded by eu. This also implies that today\'92s dif-\
ference, WU(w)WU(w,Ht), cannot be more than beu>0, which contradicts our\
premise. This establishes that a difference in the value functions for unemployed\
workers (or the value functions for the joint value of the match) arbitrarily close to\
eu>0 (or em>0) cannot occur. Hence the BRE is the unique equilibrium.\
This completes the proof of Proposition 2.\
C.4.2 Proof of Existence of a Reallocation and Separation cutoff\
C.4.2.1 Reservation property of occupational mobility decisions, zr\
Here we show that M(w)and WU(w)as derived in the proof of Proposition 2 are\
increasing in z. IfM(w)and WU(w)are continuous and bounded functions increas-\
ing in z,Tmaps them into increasing (bounded and continuous) functions. For em-\
ployed workers (T(G(w, 0)), this follows since both max fM(w0),WU(w0)gand y(.)\
are increasing in z, while the stochastic dominance of the z-productivity transition\
law implies higher expected z\'92s tomorrow. For unemployed workers (T(G(w, 1)),\
note that the value of changing occupations R(w)does not depend on the current z\
of the worker, while equation (29) implies that D(M(w)WU(w)) + WU(w)is in-\
creasing in z. Again, given stochastic dominance of the tomorrow\'92s zwhen today\'92s z\
244\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 246 of 269]\
is higher, T(G(w, 1))is also increasing in z. The reservation property follows imme-\
diately, since R(w)is constant in zand D(M(w)WU(w)) + WU(w)is increasing\
inz.\
C.4.2.2 Reservation property of job separation decisions, zs\
We now show that M(w)WU(w)is increasing in zwhen d+l(q(w))<1 for\
the case of no human capital accumulation and occupational-wide shocks. In the\
calibration we show that this property holds also for the case of human capital ac-\
cumulation and occupational-wide shocks.\
Consider the same operator Tde\uc0\u64257 ned in the proof of Proposition 2, but now the\
relevant state space is given by (A,z). Note that the value functions describing the\
worker\'92s and the \uc0\u64257 rm\'92s problem, do not change, except for the fact that we are using\
a smaller state space. It is straightforward to verify that the derived properties of T\
in Lemma A.1 also apply in this case. We now want to show that this operator maps\
the subspace of functions Ginto itself with M(A,z)increasing weakly faster in zthan\
WU(A,z). To show this, take M(A,z)and WU(A,z)such that M(A,z)WU(A,z)\
is weakly increasing in zand let zsdenote a reservation productivity such that for\
z<zsa \uc0\u64257 rm-worker match decide to terminate the match. Using l(q)(MWU)\
qk=l(q)(MWU)l0(q)(MWU)q=l(q)(1h)(MWU), we construct the\
following difference\
TG(A,z, 0)TG(A,z, 1) = (43)\
y(A,z)b+bEA,zh\
(1d)maxfM(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0, 0g\
maxZ\
WU(A0,\'98z)dF(\'98z)cWU(A0,z0),l(q)(1h)\
M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0)i\
.\
The \uc0\u64257 rst part of the proof shows the conditions under which TG(A,z, 0)TG(A,z, 1)\
is weakly increasing in z. Because the elements of the our relevant domain are re-\
stricted to have WU(A,z)increasing in z, and M(A,z)WU(A,z)increasing in z,\
we can start to study the value of the term under the expectation sign, by cutting a\
number of different cases to consider depending on where z0is relative to the im-\
plied reservation cutoffs.\
\'96 Case 1. Consider the range of tomorrow\'92s z02[z(A0),zr(A0)), where zr(A0)<\
zs(A0). In this case, the term under the expectation sign in the above equation re-\
245\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 247 of 269]\
duces toR\
WU(A0,\'98z)dF(\'98z) +c+WU(A0,z0), which is increasing in z0.\
\'96 Case 2. Now suppose tomorrow\'92s z02[zr(A0),zs(A0)). In this case, the term under\
the expectation sign becomes zero (as M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0) = 0), and is therefore\
constant in z0.\
\'96 Case 3. Next suppose that z02[zs(A0),zr(A0)). In this case, the entire term under\
the expectation sign reduces to\
(1d)(M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0))Z\
WU(A0,\'98z)dF(\'98z) +c+WU(A0,z0),\
and, once again, is weakly increasing in z0, because by supposition M(A0,z0)\
WU(A0,z0)is weakly increasing in z0, and so is WU(A0,z0)by Lemma A.1.\
\'96 Case 4. Finally consider the range of z0maxfzr(A0),zs(A0)g, such that in this\
range employed workers do not quit nor reallocate. In this case the term under the\
expectation sign equals\
(1d)[M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0)]l(q(A0,z0))(1h)[M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0)]. (44)\
It is easy to show using the free entry condition thatd(l(q(A0,z0))(1h)[M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0)])\
d(MW)=\
l(q(A0,z0)), and hence that the derivative of (44) with respect to z0is positive when-\
ever 1dl(q)0.\
Given F(z0jz)<F(z0j\'98z)for all z,z0when z>\'98z, the independence of zofA, and\
that the term under the expectation sign are increasing in z0, given any A0, it follows\
that the integral in (43) is increasing in today\'92s z. Together with y(A,z)increasing\
inz, it must be that TG(A,z, 1)TG(A,z, 0)is also increasing in z.\
To establish that the \uc0\u64257 xed point also has increasing differences in zbetween the\
\uc0\u64257 rst and second coordinate, we have to show that the space of this functions is\
closed in the space of bounded and continuous functions. In particular, consider the\
set of functions Fde f=ff2Cj f:XY!R2,jf(x,y, 1)f(x,y, 2)jincreasing in yg,\
where f(., ., 1),f(., ., 2)denote the \uc0\u64257 rst and second coordinate, respectively, and C\
the metric space of bounded and continuous functions endowed with the sup-norm.\
The next step in the proof is to show that \uc0\u64257 xed point of TG(A,z, 0)TG(A,z, 1)\
is also weakly increasing in z. To show we \uc0\u64257 rst establish the following result.\
Lemma B.1: Fis a closed set inC\
Proof. Consider an f0/2Fthat is the limit of a sequence ffng,fn2F,8n2N. Then\
246\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 248 of 269]\
there exists an y1<ysuch that f0(x,y1, 1)f0(x,y1, 2)>f0(x,y, 1)f0(x,y, 2),\
while fn(x,y1, 1)fn(x,y1, 2)fn(x,y, 1)fn(x,y, 2), for every n. De\uc0\u64257 ne a se-\
quencefsngwith sn=fn(x,y1, 1)fn(x,y1, 2)(fn(x,y, 1)fn(x,y, 2)). Then\
sn0,8n2N. A standard result in real analysis guarantees that for any limit\
sof this sequence, sn!s, it holds that s0. Hence f0(x,y1, 1)f0(x,y1, 2)\
f0(x,y, 1)f0(x,y, 2), contradicting the premise.\
Thus, the \uc0\u64257 xed point exhibits this property as well and the optimal quit policy is\
a reservation- zpolicy given 1dl(q)>0. Since y(A,z)is strictly increasing in z,\
the \uc0\u64257 xed point difference MWUmust also be strictly increasing in z. Furthermore,\
since l(q)is concave and positively valued, l0(q)(MWU) = kimplies that job\
\uc0\u64257 nding rate is also (weakly) increasing in z.\
C.4.3 Proofs of the \'93Model Implications and Comparative Statics\'94\
We now turn to the proofs of Lemmas 1, 2 and 3 presented in Section C.1. Re-\
call that these results were derived using a simpli\uc0\u64257 ed version of the model with-\
out occupational human capital accumulation, setting xh=1 for all h, and with-\
out occupational-wide productivity shocks, setting po=1 for all o. These restric-\
tions imply that the relevant state space is (z,A). We further assumed that the z-\
productivity is redrawn randomly with probability 0 <(1g)<1 each period\
from cdf F(z)and Ais held constant. In this stationary environment, the expected\
value of unemployment for a worker currently with productivity zin occupation o\
is given by\
WU(A,z) = g\
b+bmaxn\
R(A),WU(A,z) +maxfl(q(A,z))(1h)(M(A,z)WU(A,z)), 0go\
+ ( 1g)Ez[WU(A,z)]. (45)\
where the expected value of occupational mobility is given by R(A) =c+Ez[WU(A,z)].\
The values of employment at wage w(A,z)for a worker currently with productivity\
zand a \uc0\u64257 rm employing this worker are given by\
WE(A,z) =g\
w(A,z) +b[(1d)WE(A,z) +dWU(A,z)]+ (1g)Ez[WE(A,z)],\
(46)\
J(A,z) =g\
y(A,z)w(A,z) +b[(1d)J(A,z))]+ (1g)Ez[J(A,z)]. (47)\
247\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 249 of 269]\
The joint value of a match is then\
M(A,z) =g\
y(A,z) +b[(1d)M(A,z) +dWU(A,z)]+ (1g)Ez[M(A,z)].\
(48)\
Proof of Lemma 1 We state the detailed version of this lemma as Lemma H.1.\
To simplify the analysis and without loss of generality, in what follows we let d=0.\
Since we do not vary aggregate productivity to proof this lemma, we let A=1 and\
abusing notation we refer to zas total output. This is done without loss of gen-\
erality as now output only depends (and is strictly increasing and continuous) on\
the worker-occupation match-speci\uc0\u64257 c productivity. To abbreviate notation de\u64257 ned\
WsWU(zs).\
Lemma H.1: The differences WsR and zrzs, respond to changes in c, b and gas\
follows\
1.(i) WsR is strictly increasing in c and (ii) zrzsis decreasing in c, strictly if\
zr>zs.\
2.(i) WsR is strictly increasing in b and (ii) zrzsis strictly decreasing in b.\
3.(i) WsR is strictly decreasing in gand (ii) zrzsis strictly increasing in g.\
We \uc0\u64257 rst consider the link between WsRand zrzsas the parameter of interest\
k(i.e. c,borg) changes. The reservation productivities for job separation and\
occupational mobility implicitly satisfy\
M(k,zs(k))Ws(k) =0\
(49)\
WU(k,zr(k))R(k) =l(q(k,zr(k)))(1h)(M(k,zr(k))Ws(k)) + ( Ws(k)R(k)) = 0,\
(50)\
where (50) only applies when R(k)Ws(k)and hence only when zr(k)zs(k). In\
the case of Ws(k)>R(k), the assumed stochastic process for zimplies that zr(k) =\
z. The latter follows as WU(z) = Ws(k)for all z<zs. Also note that we can use\
Ws(k)instead of W(k,zr(k))in (50) as the assumed stochastic process for zalso\
implies that WU(z) =Ws(k)for all z<zrwhen R(k)>Ws(k).\
248\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 250 of 269]\
Note that by de\uc0\u64257 ning\
Z(k)Ez[maxfM(k,z),Ws(k)gmaxfWU(k,z)+l(q(k,z))(1h)(M(k,z)WU(k,z)),R(k)g],\
we can rewrite equations (49) and (50) as\
M(k,zs(k))Ws(k) =zsb+b(1g)Z(k) +bg(Ws(k)R(k)) = 0.\
Further note that\
M(k,zr(k))Ws(k) =zrb+b(1g)Z(k) +bg(1l(q(k,zr))(1h))(M(k,zr(k))Ws(k)),\
which is strictly positive and changes with k. Using (50) leads to\
(1bg)(M(k,zr(k))Ws(k)) = zrb+b(1g)Z(k) +bg(Ws(k)R(k))\
Leaving implicit the dependency on k, we obtain that\
d(MWs)\
d(WsR)=d(MWs)\
d(l(q)(1h)(MWs))d(l)(1h)(MWs)\
d(WsR),\
where the latter term equals 1, and the former term equals l1(q). This follows\
as Nash Bargaining and free-entry imply q(q)h(MWU) =cand hencedq\
dMWU=\
q\
(1h)(MWU). Then l0(q)dq\
dMWU(1h)(MWU) +l(q)(1h)reduces to l(q). It\
then follows that when zr(k)zs(k), the derivative of zrwith respect to kis given\
by\
dzr(k)\
dk=d\
dk\
b+b(1g)Z(k)\
\
bg+1bg\
l(q(k,zr(k)))d(Ws(k)R(k))\
dk.\
(51)\
We can similarly obtain that when zr(k)zs(k), the derivative of zswith respect to\
kis given by\
dzs(k)\
dk=d\
dk\
b+b(1g)Z(k)\
bgd(Ws(k)R(k))\
dk. (52)\
Equations (51) and (52) then imply that when zr(k)zs(k)(i.e. zrand zs(k)are\
interior), the derivative of zr(k)zs(k)with respect to khas the opposite sign to the\
derivative of Ws(k)R(k)with respect to k.\
As mentioned above, in the case of Ws(k)>R(k)our simpli\uc0\u64257 ed model implies\
zr(k) = z. Hence changes in kcan only affect zs, although will affect Ws(k)and\
R(k). Using (45) and (48) we obtain that for Ws(k)>R(k)the reservation separation\
249\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 251 of 269]\
cutoff is given by\
zs(k) =b1g\
gEz[M(k,z)WU(k,z)].\
Taking derivative with respect to kthen lead to\
dzs(k)\
dk=db\
dkd((1g)/g)\
dkEz[M(k,z)WU(k,z)] +1g\
gdEz[M(k,z)WU(k,z)]\
dk.\
(53)\
To complete the lemma we now obtain the derivatives of Ws(k)R(k)and\
Ez[M(k,z)WU(k,z)]with respect to k.\
Comparative Statics with respect to c:Consider the difference WsRand\
values of csuch that RWs. In this case we have that\
Ws= (1g)(R+c) +g(b+bR),\
WsR=g(1b)R+ (1g)c+gb.\
Suppose towards a contradiction that d(WsR)/dc<0. The above equations im-\
ply thatdR\
dc>(1g)\
g(1b)>0. We will proceed by showing that under d(WsR)/dc<0\
both the expected match surplus (after a z-shock) and the match surplus for active\
labor markets (those with productivities that entail positive match surplus) decrease\
with c, which implies that the value of unemployment decreases with c, which in\
turn impliesdR\
dc<0, which is our contradiction.\
Consider an active labor market with WU(z)>R, the surplus on this labor\
market is then given by\
M(z)WU(z) =g(zb+b(1l(q(z))(1h))(M(z)WU(z)))\
+ (1g)(E[M(z)WU(z)] + ( zE[z])), (54)\
where E[M(z)WU(z)]describes the expected surplus after a z-shock (after the\
search stage). Note that\
d\
d(M(z)WU(z))(l(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))) = l(q(z)). (55)\
As described before, this result follows as (dropping the zargument for brevity) our\
assumptions of Nash Bargaining and free-entry imply (1h)(MWU) =(1h)\
hJ=\
1h\
hk\
q(q), and hence l(q)(1h)(MWU) =1h\
hkq. Further, sincedq\
d(MWU)=\
250\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 252 of 269]\
h\
1hl(q)\
k, the chain rule then yields a derivative equal to l(q). This result implies\
that from (54) we obtain\
0<d(M(z)WU(z))\
d(E[M(z)WU(z)])=1g\
1gb(1l(q(z)))<1. (56)\
We now show that under d(WsR)/dc<0, the expected match surplus de-\
creases in c. Note that the expected match surplus measured after the search stage\
is given by\
E[M(z)WU(z)] =Z\
zrzb+b(1l(q(z))(1h))(M(z)WU(z))dF(z)\
+Zzr\
zszb+b(M(z)R)dF(z) +Zzs\
zb+b(WsR)dF(z),\
(57)\
where the (1g)shock integrates out. Our contradiction supposition implies that\
the third term of this expression is decreasing in c. The second term,Rzr\
zs[M(z)\
WU(z)]dF(z), can be rewritten as\
M(z)Ws=g(zb+b(M(z)Ws+WsR)) + ( 1g)(E[M(z)WU(z)] +zE[z]),\
and rearranging yields\
M(z)Ws=g\
1gb(zb+b(WsR)) +1g\
1gbE[M(z)WU(z)],\
whereg\
1gb(zb+b(WsR))is decreasing in cunder our contradiction suppo-\
sition. In the case of the \uc0\u64257 rst term in (57), note that (56) implies M(z)WU(z)\
depends on cthrough E[M(z)WU(z)]. Combining all the elements, (56), (57) and\
the last two equations, we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dc=Z\
zr(1g)b(1l(q(z)))\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dF(z)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dc\
+ (F(zr)F(zs))gb\
1gbd(WsR)\
dc+1g\
1gbdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dc\
+F(zs)bd(WsR)\
dc\
()dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dc=Cd(WsR)\
dc<0, (58)\
where Cis a positive constant. Equation (56) then implies thatd[M(z)WU(z)]\
dc<0.\
Next considerdWU(z)\
dcanddE[WU(z)]\
dc. Note that for the case in which zzr,\
251\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 253 of 269]\
WU(z) = Ws= (1g)E[WU(z)] +g(b+bE[WU(z)]bc); while for z>zr,\
WU(z) = ( 1g)E[WU(z)] +g(b+b(l(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z)) +bWU(z))).\
It then follows that\
E[WU(z)] = F(zr)(b+bE[WU(z)]bc) +Z\
zr(b+bl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z)) +bWU(z))dF(z),\
which combined with\
WU=1g\
1bgE[WU(z)] +g\
1bg(b+bl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))),\
leads to\
\
1bF(zr)b1g\
1bg(1F(zr))\
E[WU(z)]\
=F(zr)(bbc) +Z\
zrb+bl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))\
1bgdF(z).\
Taking the derivative with respect to c, we \uc0\u64257 nd that both the \u64257 rst and second terms\
on the RHS of the last expression decrease with c, the latter because we have estab-\
lished before thatd(M(z)WU(z))\
dc<0. It then follows thatdE[WU(z)]\
dc<0 and hence\
dR\
dc=dE[WU(z)]\
dc1<0, which yields our desired contradiction. Equations (51) and\
(52) then imply thatd(zr(c)zs(c))\
dc<0 when zr>zs.\
Now consider the difference WsRand values of csuch that R<Ws. In this\
case rest unemployment implies Ws=g(b+bWs) + ( 1g)E[WU(z)]. Note that\
heredWs\
dc=0, since workers with productivities zzswill never change occupa-\
tions. Doing so implies paying a cost c>0 and randomly drawing a new produc-\
tivity, while by waiting a worker obtains (with probability 1 g) a free draw from\
the productivity distribution. Hence, d(WsR)/dc=dR/dc. Since workers with\
z>zsprefer employment in their current occupation, the above arguments imply\
that when R<Wsthe expected value of unemployment, WU(z), is independent of\
the value the worker obtains from sampling a new zin a different occupation. It\
then follows thatdR\
dc=dE[WU(z)]\
dc1=1<0, which once again yields are desired\
contradiction. Further note that in this casedEz[M(c,z)WU(c,z)]\
dc=0 and hence (53)\
implies thatdzs(c)\
dc=0 andd(zr(c)zs(c))\
dc=0 when zs>zr.\
Comparative Statics with respect to b:We proceed in the same way as in the\
previous case. Consider the difference WsRsuch that RWs. Expressing Ws\
252\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 254 of 269]\
and WU, for z>zs, as\
Ws= (1g)E[WU(z)] +g(b+b(RWs)) +gbWs(59)\
WU(z) = ( 1g)E[WU(z)] +g(b+b(l(q)(1h)(M(z)WU(z)))) + gbWU(z),\
(60)\
we \uc0\u64257 nd that WsE[WU(z)] =R\
zr(WsWU(z))dF(z), which in turn implies\
WsR=1\
1gbF(zr)\
bgZ\
zrl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z) + ( 1gb)c\
.\
(61)\
That is, the difference WsRdecomposes into (i) the forgone option of searching\
for a job in the new occupation next period (\uc0\u64257 rst term in the brackets) and (ii) a\
sampling cost that only has to be incurred next period with probability g, and dis-\
counted at rate b(second term in the brackets).\
Next consider the relationship between M(z)WU(z)andE[M(z)WU(z)].\
From (55) and (56), we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
d(M(z)WU(z))\
db=1g\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dbg\
1gb(1l(q(z))).\
(62)\
Note thatd(M(z)WU(z))\
dbmust have the same sign for all z, which is positive if and\
only if\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db>g\
1g.\
Towards a contradiction, suppose d(WsR)/db<0. Then, we haved(WsR)\
db=\
d(WsE[WU(z)])\
db, which equalsd\
dbR\
zrmaxfWU(z)Ws, 0gdF(z)\
. By the envelope\
condition, the effectdzr\
dbdisappears. By the previous argument and (59) subtracted\
by (60), it follows thatd(WsR)\
db<0 impliesd(M(z)WU(z))\
db>0 and by (62) that\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db>0.\
253\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 255 of 269]\
Using the the same arguments as in (58) we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db=1+Z\
zrb(1l(q(z)))gb(1l(q(z)))\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dF(z)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db\
Z\
zrgb(1l(q(z)))\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dF(z)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db\
+ (F(zr)F(zs))gb2\
1gbd(WsR)\
db+b(1g)\
1gbdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db\
(F(zr)F(zs))gb\
1gb+F(zs)bd(WsR)\
db(63)\
=)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db=C2d(WsR)\
dbC3<0,\
where C2and C3are positive constants. The fact that the last expression leads to\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db<0 yields our desired contradiction. Equations (51) and (52) then\
imply thatd(zr(b)zs(b))\
db<0 when zr>zs.\
Next we consider the case in which Ws>Rand note that in this case equation\
(61) becomes\
WsE[WU(z)] =bg\
1bgZ\
zsl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z).\
As before, if we start from the premise that d(WsR)/db<0, this will imply, by\
virtue of (62), thatdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db>0. Noting that in this case equation (57) reduces\
to\
E[M(z)WU(z)] =Z\
zszb+bl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z),\
and (63) reduces to\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db=1+Z\
zsb(1l(q(z)))gb(1l(q(z)))\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dF(z)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db\
Z\
zsgb(1l(q(z)))\
1gb(1l(q(z)))dF(z)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db,\
we obtain thatdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
db<0, once again yielding our desired contradiction.\
Equation (53) then imply thatd(zr(b)zs(b))\
db<0 also when zs>zr.\
Comparative Statics with respect to g:Here we also proceed in the same way\
as before by assuming (towards a contradiction) that d(WsR)/dg>0. We start\
254\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 256 of 269]\
with the case in which RWs. Using equation (61) we \uc0\u64257 nd that\
d(WsR)\
dg=bF(zr)\
1bg(WsR)1\
1bgF(zr)Z\
zrl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z) +bc\
Z\
zrbgl(q(z))d(M(z)WU(z))\
dgdF(z).\
It then follows that\
Z\
zrbgl(q(z))d(M(z)WU(z))\
dgdF(z)bF(zr)\
1bg(RWs)\
+1\
1bgF(zr)Z\
zrl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z) +bc\
>0. (64)\
Using the above expressions we turn to investigate the implications of assuming\
d(WsR)/dg>0 fordE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg. We can rewrite (57), bringing next period\'92s\
continuation values to the LHS, as\
(1b)E[M(z)WU(z)] =Z\
zrzbbl(q(z))(1h)(M(z)WU(z))dF(z)\
+Zzr\
zszb+b(WsR)dF(z)\
+Zzs\
zb+b(WsR)b(M(z)Ws)dF(z).\
Taking derivatives with respect to g, we \uc0\u64257 nd\
(1b)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg=Z\
zrbl(q(z))(1h)d(M(z)WU(z))\
dgdF(z)\
+Zzr\
zsbd(WsR)\
dgdF(z)\
+Zzs\
bd(WsR)\
dgd(M(z)Ws)\
dg\
dF(z), (65)\
where the \uc0\u64257 rst term is positive by virtue of (64) and the second term is positive by\
assumption. For the third term it holds that\
d(M(z)Ws)\
dg=(1g)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg+gbd(WsR)\
dg+ (zb+b(WsR)E[M(z)WU(z)]).\
Substituting out this expression in the third line of the RHS of (65) and re-arranging\
implies thatdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg>0.\
From M(z)WU(z) = ( 1g)E[M(z)WU(z)] +g(zb+b(1l(q(z))(1\
255\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 257 of 269]\
h))(M(z)WU(z)), it follows that for z>zr\
bgl(q)dM(z)WU(z)\
dg=bgl(q(z))\
1bg(1l(q(z)))\
zb+b(1l(q(z))(1h))(M(z)WU(z))\
E[M(z)WU(z)]\
+ (1g)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg\
,\
(66)\
where we have used (55) and (56). Integrating this term over all z>zr, we have\
Z\
zrbgl(q(z))d(M(z)WU(z))\
dgdF(z)bgl(q(zr))\
1bg(1l(q(zr)))Z\
zr(1g)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dgdF(z)\
+1\
gZ\
zr(M(z)WU(z)E[M(z)WU(z)])dF(z)\
>0,\
(67)\
where the last inequality follows from the fact that M(z)WU(z)E[M(z)\
WU(z)]andbl(q(z))\
1bg+bgl(q(z))are increasing in z. ThenR\
zr(M(z)WU(z)E[M(z)\
WU(z)])dF(z)>0 and hence the LHS of (67) is positive as stated, contradicting\
our premise in (64). Equations (51) and (52) then imply thatd(zr(g)zs(g))\
dg>0 when\
zr>zs.\
Next we turn to investigate the implications of assuming d(WsR)/dg>0\
ondE[M(z)WU(y)]\
dgfor the case in which Ws>Rto obtain a contradiction. Here a\
relationship betweend(M(z)WU(z))\
dganddE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dgcan be derived directly:\
(1b)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg=bZ\
zrl(q(z))d(M(z)WU(z))\
dgdF(z). (68)\
Using the above and (66) we obtain that\
(1b)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg=Z\
zsbgl(q(z))\
1bg(1l(q(z)))\
zb+b(1l(q(z))(1h))(M(z)WU(z))\
E[M(z)WU(z)]\
+ (1g)dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg\
dF(z),\
256\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 258 of 269]\
which in turn can be expressed as\
dE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg \
(1b) +F(zs)bgl(q(z))(1g)\
1bg+bgl(q(z))!\
=\
Z\
zsbgl(q(z))\
1bg(1l(q(z)))\
zb+b(1l(q(z))(1h))(M(z)WU(z))\
E[M(z)WU(z)]\
dF(z)<0. (69)\
From (69), it then follows thatdE[M(z)WU(z)]\
dg<0. Using equation (68), we obtain\
that WsRis decreasing in g, where\
d(WsR)\
dg=d(WsE[WU(z)])\
dg=1\
1bZ\
zsgl(q(z))d(M(z)WU(z))\
dg<0,\
which leads to our required contradiction. Equation (53) then imply thatd(zr(g)zs(g))\
dg>\
0 also when zs>zr. This complete the proof for Lemma H.1.\
Proof of Lemma 2 Using the same setting as in Lemma H.1 we now introduce\
human capital x, assuming it enters in a multiplicative way in the production func-\
tion. Keeping the same notation as in Lemma H.1, let A=1 such that total output\
is given by zx. Without loss of generality for the results derived in this lemma, nor-\
malize x=1. If we have an incremental improvement in xthat is occupational\
speci\uc0\u64257 c, the value of sampling will stay constant, at R=E[WU(1,z)]c. However,\
the value of Ws(x)will increases with x. Since Ws(x) = ( 1g)E[WU(x,z)] +g(b+\
bmaxfR,Ws(x)g)it follow that Ws(x)is increasing in xthrough E[WU(x,z)].\
To investigate the dependence between Ws(x)andE[WU(x,z)]when xchanges\
we \uc0\u64257 rst suppose that RWs(x). The value of unemployment when zzr(x)is\
given by\
WU(x,z) = ( 1g)E[WU(x,z)] +g(b+bl(q(x,z)))(1h)(M(x,z)WU(x,z)) +bWU(x,z)),\
while for zr(x)>zit is given by\
Ws(x) = ( 1g)E[WU(x,z)] +g(b+bR).\
When comparing the expected value of separating with the expected value of mov-\
ing to another occupations (reseting x=1), the difference is given by\
Ws(x)E[WU(1,z)] = ( 1g)E[WU(x,z)] + C4,\
257\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 259 of 269]\
where C4denotes those terms that are constant in x.\
As a result,d(Ws(x)E[WU(1,z)])\
dx= (1g)dE[WU(x,z)]\
dx, where E[WU(x,z)]can be\
expressed as\
E[WU(x,z)] = F(zr(x))(b+bR) +Z\
zr(x)h\
b+bl(q(x,z))(1h)(M(x,z)WU(x,z)) +bWU(x,z)i\
dF(z).\
Using the expression WU(x,z), it then follows that\
\
1b(1g)\
1bg(1F(zr(x)))\
E[WU(x,z)]\
=F(zr(x))(b+bR) +1F(zr(x))\
1bgb+Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))(1h)(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
1bgdF(z).\
Taking the derivative with respect to xand using the envelope condition, which\
implies that the term premultiplying dzr(x)/dxequal zero, yields\
dE[WU(x,z)]\
dx=bd\
dxR\
zr(x)[l(q(x,z))(1h)(M(x,z)WU(x,z))]dF(z)\
1b(1(1g)F(zr(x))). (70)\
Since the denominator is positive, the sign of dE[WU(x,z)]/dxis given by the sign\
of its numerator. By virtue of the envelope condition and equation (55) in the proof\
of Lemma 1, the latter is given\
Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dxdF(z),\
where\
d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dx= (1g)dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+ (1g)(zE[z]) +gz\
+bg(1l(q(x,z)))d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dx.\
(71)\
Hence the numerator of (70) is given by\
Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))(1g)\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z]\
+bl(q(x,z))g\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))z\
dF(z).\
(72)\
It is then clear that the sign of dE[WU(x,z)]/dxis the same as the sign of dE[M(x,z)\
258\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 260 of 269]\
WU(x,z)]/dx. To investigate the latter note that\
E[M(x,z)WU(x,z)] =Z\'afz\
z(xzb)dF(z) +Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))(1h)(M(x,z)WU(x,z))dF(z)\
+Zzr(x)\
zs(x)b(M(x,z)Ws(z))dF(z) +Zzr(x)\
b(Ws(x)R)dF(z).\
(73)\
We will now take the derivative of this expression with respect to xto investigate\
its sign. For this purpose it is useful to note that\
Zzr(x)\
zs(x)bd(M(x,y)Ws(x))\
dxdF(z) =bZzr(x)\
zs(x)h\
(1g)dE[M(x,y)WU(x,y)]\
dx+ (1g)(yE[y]) +gy\
+bgd(M(x,y)Ws(x))\
dx+bgd(Ws(x)R)\
dxi\
dF(z),\
and that\
Zzr(x)bd(Ws(x)R))\
dxdF(z) =b(1g)F(zr(x))\
1b(1(1g)F(zr(x))) (74)\
Z\
zrbl(q(x,z))(1g)\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z]\
+bl(q(x,z))g\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))z\
dF(z).\
Using (72) and the above equations we obtain thatdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx=\
E(z) +Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))(1g)\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z]\
+bl(q(x,z))g\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))z\
dF(z)\
+b\
1bgZzr(x)\
zs(x)h\
(1g)dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z]\
+gzi\
dF(z)\
+b\
1bg(1g)F(zr(x))\
1b(1(1g)F(zr(x))) (75)\
Z\
zr(x)bl(q(x,z))(1g)\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z]\
+bl(q(x,z))g\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))z\
dF(z)\
.\
The next step is to investigate whether the sum of all terms premultiplyingdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx\
in (75) is less than 1. If this is the case, grouping all these terms and solving for\
dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]/dxwill imply that dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]/dx>0 as the\
reminder terms in the RHS of (75) are positive because the integrating terms zE[z]\
will also yield a positive term.\
259\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 261 of 269]\
We proceed by noting that the terms premultiplyingdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dxin the last\
three lines of (75) are larger than in (74). By replacing the premultiplication term in\
(74) with the corresponding term in (75) we will show that the entire term premul-\
tiplyingdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dxin (75) is less than one. Some algebra establishes that to\
show the latter we need to verify that\
bd(M(x,y)WU(x,y))\
dx+d(WsR)\
dx\
F(zr(x))<1b(1g)(1F(zr(x))).\
(76)\
By collecting the terms premultiplyingdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+zE[z], and substituting\
these into the LHS of (76), we obtain that\
F(zr)b(1g)(1b+b(1g)F(zr(x)))\
(1gb)(1b+b(1g)F(zr(x)))+b(1g)(b(1g)(1F(zr(x))))\
(1gb)(1b+b(1g)F(zr(x)))\
=b(1g)(1b+b(1g))\
(1gb)(1b+b(1g)F(zr(x)))F(zr(x)). (77)\
The RHS of (76) can be rewritten as 1 b+bg+b(1g)F(zr(x)). Noting that\
bg>bg(b(1g))\
1b+b(1g)\
F(zr(x))\
(1gb)(1b+b(1g)F(zr(x)))(78)\
b(1g)F(zr(x))>b(1g)(1gb)\
1b+b(1g)\
F(zr(x))\
(1gb)(1b+bF(zr(x))), (79)\
and adding them up we \uc0\u64257 nd that the RHS is precisely the term in (77). Therefore\
bg+b(1g)F(zr(x))is larger than (77), from which the desired result follows as\
the remaining term, 1 b, is larger than zero and the desired inequality is slack. This\
yields dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]/dx>0. It then follows from (71) that d(M(x,z)\
WU(x,z))/dx>0 and therefore, by (70), that dE[WU(x,z)]/dx>0 and d(Ws(x)\
R)/dx>0.\
We now need to consider the case in which Ws(x)>R. Here we once again\
obtain that\
d(Ws(x)R)\
dx= (1g)dE[WU(x,z)]\
dx,\
where\
(1b)dE[WU(x,z)]\
dx=Z\
zs(x)bl(q(x,z))d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dxdF(z) (80)\
260\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 262 of 269]\
and\
d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dx= (1g)dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx+ (1g)(E[z]z)\
+g(z+b(1l(q(x,z))))d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dx\
,\
(81)\
while the expected surplus evolves according to\
dE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx=Z\
zs(x)z+b(1l(q(x,z)))d(M(x,z)WU(x,z))\
dx. (82)\
Substituting (81) into (82), it follows thatdE[M(x,z)WU(x,z)]\
dx>0, from which in turn\
it follows that (80) is also positive.\
Finally, we investigate the implications of a change in xonzs(x)and zr(x). When\
zr(x)>zs(x), these reservation cutoff functions are given by\
M(x,zs(x))Ws(x) =0\
l(q(x,zr(x)))(1h)(M(x,zr(x))WU(x,zr(x))) + ( Ws(x)R) =0.\
Further we can obtain that\
M(x,zs(x))Ws(x) =xzs(x)b+b(1g)E[maxfM(x,z)WU(x,z),Ws(x)Rg]\
+bg(Ws(x)R)\
M(x,zr(x))Ws(x) =xzr(x)b+b(1g)E[maxfM(x,z)WU(x,z),WsRg]\
+bg(1l(q(x,zr(x))(1h)(M(x,zr(x))Ws(x)).\
Taking derivatives with respect to xwe \uc0\u64257 nd that\
zs(x) +b(1g)d\
dx\
E[maxfM(x,z)WU(x,z),Ws(x)Rg]\
+bgd(Ws(x)R)\
dx+xdzs(x)\
dx=0\
l(q(x,z))\
1bg(1l(q(x,z)))\
zr(x) +b(1g)d\
dx\
E[maxfM(x,z)WU(x,z),Ws(x)Rg]\
+xdzr(x)\
dx\
+d(Ws(x)R)\
dx=0\
Sinced(Ws(x)R)\
dx>0, this implies that\
zs(x) +xdzs(x)\
dxzr(x) +xdzr(x)\
dx+1bg\
l(q(x,z))d(Ws(x)R)\
dx, (83)\
261\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 263 of 269]\
which implies that, evaluated at x=1,\
dzs(x)\
dxdzr(x)\
dx>zr(x)zs(x).\
The above result then yields that for zr>zs, more occupational human capital\
brings closer together the two cutoffs. For zr<zs, it holds in this simpli\uc0\u64257 ed setting\
that zrjumps to the corner, zr=z, while zsdecreases with x. This completes the\
proof of Lemma 2.\
Proof of Lemma 3 To proof this lemma we use the equations (45) - (48), where\
we have assumed no human capital accumulation. Further, to simplify we let g=1\
such that the z-productivity does not change. We also focus on the case in which\
zr>zssuch that zr,zs2(z,\'afz)and without loss of generality let d=0. In this\
stationary environment, described by Aand z, note that at labor markets whose\
z-productivities equal zrit holds that\
Z\'afz\
zWU(A,z)dF(z)c=WU(A,zr) +l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr)). (84)\
Further, the expected value of unemployment for workers with z<zris given by\
WU(A,z) =WU(A,zr). This follows since over this range of z\'92s,\
Z\'afz\
zWU(A,z)dF(z)cWU(A,z) +l(q(A,z))(WE(A,z)WU(A,z)))\
and unemployed workers prefer change occupations the period after arrival. On\
the other hand, the value of unemployment for workers with zzris given by\
WU(A,z) =b+bl(q(A,z))(WE(A,z)WU(A,z))\
1b.\
Equation (84) can then be expressed as\
bZ\'afz\
z\
maxfl(q(A,z))(WE(A,z)WU(A,z)),l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr))g\
dF(z)\
=l(q(A,zr))(WE(A,zr)WU(A,zr)) + c(1b).\
Using hl(q(A,z))(WE(A,z)WU(A,z)) = ( 1h)l(q(A,z))J(A,z) = ( 1h)q(A,z)k,\
we have that R(A) =WU(A,zr(A))can be expressed as\
(1h)k\
h \
bZ\'afz\
zmaxfq(A,z),q(A,zr)gdF(z)!\
c(1b) =(1h)k\
hq(A,zr), (85)\
262\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 264 of 269]\
where the LHS describes the net bene\uc0\u64257 t of moving to a different occupation and the\
RHS the bene\uc0\u64257 t of staying in the same occupation. With this derivation we now\
analyse under what conditions dzr/dA>0 and compare it to the competitive case.\
To obtain the dzr/dAfrom (85) we \uc0\u64257 rst use the free-entry condition and the\
Cobb-Douglas speci\uc0\u64257 cation for the matching function to obtain an implicit function\
that solves for q,\
q(A,z)h1h(y(A,z)b)b(1h)q(A,z)k\
1bkE(q;A,z) =0,\
where differentiation then implies that qis increasing in both Aand z,\
dq(A,z)\
dj=q(A,z)\
w(A,z)bdyj(A,z)\
dj, for j=A,z,\
and it is straightforward to show that in this stationary environment the wage equa-\
tion is given by\
w(A,z) = ( 1h)y(A,z) +hb+b(1h)q(A,z)k.\
Next, to make precise the comparison with an economy in which occupations\
are segmented in many competitive labor markets, consider the same environment\
as above, with the exception that workers can match instantly with \uc0\u64257 rms. As be-\
fore, we assume free entry (without vacancy costs), and constant returns to scale\
production. This implies that every worker will earn his marginal product y(A,z).\
Importantly, we keep the reallocation frictions the same: workers who change occu-\
pations have to forgo production for a period, and arrive at a random labor market\
in a different occupation at the end of the period. In the simple case of perma-\
nent productivity (A,z), the value of being in a labor market with z, conditional on\
y(A,z)>b, isWc(A,z) = y(A,z)/(1b), where to simplify we have not consid-\
ered job destruction shocks.\
Block recursiveness, given the free entry condition, is preserved and decisions\
are only functions of (A,z). Unemployed workers optimally choose to change oc-\
cupations, and the optimal policy is a reservation quality, zr\
c, characterised by the\
following equation\
bZ\
maxfy(A,z),y(A,zr\
c)gdF(z) + ( bc)(1b) =y(A,zr\
c).\
The LHS describes the net bene\uc0\u64257 t of switching occupations, while the RHS the value\
263\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 265 of 269]\
of of staying employed earning yin the (reservation) labor market.\
Rearranging the above equations, the reservation z-productivities for the com-\
petitive and frictional case satisfy, respectively,\
b+bZ\'afz\
zmaxfy(A,z),y(A,zr\
c)g\
1bdF(z)y(A,zr\
c)\
1bcc=0\
(1h)k\
h\
bZ\'afz\
zmaxfq(A,z),q(A,zr)g\
1bdF(z)q(A,zr)\
1b\
cs=0.\
Using these equations, the response of the reservation z-productivity, for the com-\
petitive, and the frictional case is then given by\
dzr\
c\
dA=bF(zr\
c)yA(A,zrc)\
yz(A,zrc)+bR\'afz\
zrcyA(A,z)\
yz(A,zrc)dF(z)yA(A,zrc)\
yz(A,zrc)\
1bF(zrc)\
dzr\
dA=bF(zr)yA(A,zr)\
yz(A,zr)+bR\'afz\
zrq(A,z)(w(A,zr)b)\
q(A,zr)(w(A,z)b)yA(A,z)\
yz(A,zr)dF(z)yA(A,zr)\
yz(A,zr)\
1bF(zr)\
These are the expression shown in Lemma 3, where we have used the fact that\
q(A,z)\
(w(A,z)b)(1h)k\
h=l(q(A,z))\
1b+bl(q(A,z))by virtue of\
hw(A,z)b\
1b+bl(q(A,z))=(1h)k\
q(q(p,z)),\
which follows from the combination of the free entry condition and the Hosios. This\
completes the proof of Lemma 3.\
Implications of Lemma 3 We now show two implications of Lemma 3. First\
we show that search frictions adds a procyclical force to occupational mobility deci-\
sions. Choosing cc,csappropriately such that zr\
c=zr, the above expressions imply\
thatdzr\
dA>dzrc\
dAifq(A,z)\
w(A,z)b>q(A,zr)\
w(A,zr)b,8z>zr. Hence we now need to show that\
q(A,z)\
w(A,z)bis increasing in z.\
d\
q(A,z)\
w(A,z)b\
dz=qyz(A,z)\
(w(A,z)b)2q (1h) + ( 1h)bq\
w(A,z)bk\
(w(A,z)b)2!\
yz(A,z),\
which has the same sign as h(1h)bkq\
w(A,z)band the same sign as\
h(1h)(y(A,z)b) +h(1h)bqk(1h)bqk\
= (1h)(h(y(A,z)b)(1h)bqk).\
264\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 266 of 269]\
Buth(y(A,z)b)(1h)bqk=y(A,z)w(A,z)>0 and we have established\
that search frictions within labor markets make occupational mobility decisions\
more procyclical relative to the competitive benchmark, given the same F(z)and\
the same initial reservation productivity zr=zr\
c.\
Second, we show that impact of the production function on the procyclicality of\
occupational mobility decisions. Here we want to show that with search frictions, if\
the production function is modular or supermodular (i.e. yAz0), there exists a c\
0 under which occupational mobility decisions are procyclical. With competitive\
markets, if the production function is modular, occupational mobility decisions are\
countercyclical, for any b<1 and c0.\
Note that modularity implies that yA(A,z) = yA(A,\'98z),8z>\'98z; while super-\
modularity implies yA(A,z)yA(A,\'98z),8z>\'98z. Hence modularity implies\
dzr\
c\
dA=1\
1bF(zrc)yA(A,zr\
c)\
yz(A,zrc)\
bF(zr\
c) +bZ\'afz\
zrcyA(A,z)\
yA(A,zrc)dF(z)1\
<0,8b<1.\
In the case with frictions,\
dzr\
dA=1\
1bF(zr)yA(A,zr)\
yz(A,zr)\
bF(zr) +bZ\'afz\
zrq(A,z)(w(A,zr)b)\
q(A,zr)(w(A,z)b)yA(A,z)\
yA(A,zr)dF(z)1\
.\
If we can show that the integral becomes large enough, for clarge enough, to domi-\
nate the other terms, we have established the claim. First note thatyA(A,z)\
yA(A,zr)is weakly\
larger than 1, for z>zrby the (super)modularity of the production function. Next\
consider the termq(A,z)(w(A,zr)b)\
q(A,zr)(w(A,z)b). Note that\
lim\
z#y1(b;A)q(A,z)\
w(A,z)b=l(q(A,z))\
1b+bl(q(A,z))=0,\
because q(A,z)#0, as y(A,zr)#b. Hence, \uc0\u64257 xing a zsuch that y(A,z)>b,\
q(A,z)(w(A,zr)b)\
q(A,zr)(w(A,z)b)!\'a5, asy(a,zr)#b. Since this holds for any zover which is inte-\
grated, the integral term becomes unboundedly large, making dzr/dAstrictly posi-\
tive if reservation zris low enough. Since the integral rises continuously but slower\
inzrthan the also continuous termq(A,zr)\
1b, it can be readily be established that zr\
depends continuously on c, and strictly negatively so as long as y(A,zr)>band\
F(z)has full support. Moreover, for some \'afclarge enough, y(A,zr) = b, where zris\
a lower bound for zr. Hence, as c"zr,dzr/dA>0.\
265\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 267 of 269]\
Job Separations Here we show the derivation of the slope of zsfor the case\
zr(A)>zs(A)for all Adescribed in Section C.1.2. Note that R(A) =b+bq(A,zr(A))k(1h)/h\
1b.\
The derivative of this function with respect to Aequals\
bk(1h)\
(1b)hq\
w(A,zr(A))b\
yA(A,zr(A)) + yz(A,zr(A))dzr(A)\
dA\
. (86)\
Since w(A,zr(A))b= (WE(A,zr(A))WU(A,zr(A)))(1b(1d) +bl(q(A,zr(A))))\
andqbk(1h)\
(1b)h=bl(q(A,zr(A)))(WE(A,zr(A))WU(A,zr(A)), we \uc0\u64257 nd that (86) re-\
duces to\
bl(q(A,zr(A)))\
1b(1d) +bl(q(A,zr(A))\
yA(A,zr(A)) + yz(A,zr(A))dzr(A)\
dA\
. (87)\
From the cutoff condition for separation, we \uc0\u64257 nd (1b)R(A) = y(A,zs(A)). Tak-\
ing the derivative with respect to Aimplies the left side equals (87) and the right\
side equals yA(A,zs(A)) + yz(A,zs(A))dzs(A)\
dA. Rearranging yields the equation in\
Section C.1.2.\
C.4.4 Proofs of Competitive Search Model\
Proof of Lemma 4 Fix any occupation oand consider a \uc0\u64257 rm that promised\
WWU(A,z)to the worker with productivity z, delivers this value in such a way\
that his pro\uc0\u64257 t J(A,z,W)is maximized, i.e. solving (22). Now consider an alternative\
offer \'88W6=W, which is also acceptable to the unemployed worker, and likewise\
maximizes the pro\uc0\u64257 t given \'88Wfor the \u64257 rm, J(A,z,\'88W). Then an alternative policy\
that delivers Wby using the optimal policy for \'88W, but transfers additionally W\'88W\
to the worker in the \uc0\u64257 rst period must be weakly less optimal, which using the risk\
neutrality of the worker, results in\
J(A,z,W)J(A,z,\'88W)(W\'88W)\
Likewise, an analogue reasoning implies J(A,z,\'88W)J(A,z,W)(\'88WW), which\
together with the previous equation implies\
J(A,z,W)J(A,z,\'88W)(W\'88W)J(A,z,W)(\'88WW)(W\'88W),\
and hence it must be that J(A,z,W) = J(A,z,\'88W)(W\'88W), for all M (A,z)\
W,\'88WWU. Differentiability of Jwith slope -1 follows immediately. Moreover,\
M(A,z,W) =W+J(A,z,\'88W) +\'88WW=M(A,z,\'88W)M(A,z). Finally, if W0(A0,z0)<\
266\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 268 of 269]\
WU(A0,z0)is offered tomorrow while M(A0,z0)>WU(A0,z0), it is a pro\uc0\u64257 table devi-\
ation to offer WU(A0,z0), since M(A0,z0)WU(A0,z0) = J(A0,z0,WU(A0,z0))>0 is\
feasible. This completes the proof of Lemma 4.\
Proof of Lemma 5 Fix any occupation oand consider productivity z, such that\
M(A,z)WU(A,z)>0. Since we con\uc0\u64257 ne ourselves to this productivity, with\
known continuation values J(A,z,W)and WU(A,z)in the production stage, we\
drop the dependence on A,zfor ease of notation. Free entry implies k=q(q)J(W))\
dW\
dq<0. Notice that it follows that the maximand of workers in (20), subject to (24)\
is continuous in W, and provided M>WU, has a zero at W=Mand at W=WU,\
and a strictly positive value for intermediate W: hence the problem has an interior\
maximum on [WU,M]. What remains to be shown is that the \uc0\u64257 rst order conditions\
are suf\uc0\u64257 cient for the maximum, and the set of maximizers is singular.\
Solving the worker\'92s problem of posting an optimal value subject to tightness\
implied by the free entry condition yields the following \uc0\u64257 rst order conditions (with\
multiplier m):\
l0(q)[WWU]mq0(q)J(W) =0\
l(q)mq(q)J0(W) =0\
kq(q)J(W) =0\
Using the constant returns to scale property of the matching function, one has q(q) =\
l(q)/q. This implies, combining the three equations above, to solve out mand J(W),\
0=l0(q)[W(q)WU] +qq0(q)\
q(q)kG(q),\
where we have written Was a function of q, as implied by the free entry condition.\
Then, one can derive G0(q)as\
G0(q) =l00(q)[W(q)WU] +l0(q)W0(q) +d#q,q(q)\
dq,\
where #q,q(q)denotes the elasticity of the vacancy \uc0\u64257 lling rate with respect to qand\
d#q,q(q)\
dq=q0(q)k\
q(q)+q[q00(q)q(q)q0(q)2]k\
q(q)2.\
Since the \uc0\u64257 rst two terms in the RHS are strictly negative, G0is strictly negative when\
#q,q(q)0. The latter then guarantees there is a unique \'98Wfand corresponding qthat\
267\
----------------------------------------\
\
[Page 269 of 269]\
maximizes the worker\'92s problem. This completes the proof of Lemma 5.\
References\
[1] Carrillo-Tudela, C. and L. Visschers. 2013. \'93Unemployment and Endogenous\
Reallocations Over the Business Cycle \'94. IZA Working Papers No. 7124.\
[2] Hagedorn, M. and I. Manovskii. 2008. \'93The Cyclical Behavior of Equilibrium\
Unemployment and Vacancies Revisited\'94. American Economic Review , 98 (4):\
1692-1706.\
[3] Hosios, A. 1991. \'93On the Ef\uc0\u64257 ciency of Matching and Related Models of Search\
and Unemployment\'94. Review of Economic Studies , 57 (2): 279-298.\
[4] Menzio, G. and S. Shi. 2010. \'93Directed Search on the Job, Heterogeneity and\
Aggregate Fluctuations \'94. American Economic Review , 100 (2): 327-332.\
[5] Menzio, G. I. Telyukova and L. Visschers. 2016. \'93Directed Search Over the Life-\
cycle \'94. Review of Economic Dynamics , 19: 38-62.\
[6] Moen, E. 1997. \'93Competitive Search Equilibrium\'94. Journal of Political Economy ,\
105 (2): 385-411.\
[7] Mortensen, D. and E. Nagypal. 2007. \'93More on Unemployment and Vacancy\
Fluctuations\'94. Review of Economic Dynamics , 10: 327-347.\
[8] Shimer, R. 2005. \'93The Cyclical Behavior of Equilibrium Unemployment and\
Vacancies\'94. American Economic Review , 95 (1): 25-49.\
268\
----------------------------------------\
\
}